國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際永續發展專題
#####  Course Name: Key Issues in International Sustainable Development
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：044110001 Course No.044110001


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_50_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國發所 Course Department:Graduate Institute of Development Studies 
  * 授課老師：何浩慈 Instructor: HO HAO-TZU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二78E Session: tue16-19


##  課程簡介Course Description
The Sustainable Development Goals launched by the United Nations in 2015 mark a new attempt to manage aid intervention in such a way as to address environmental degradation, poverty, and discrimination across the world and promote long-term health for planetary ecology. On the other hand, civil societies in the global south and the global north respond to and utilize these goals to promote their own political, economic, or cultural agendas. This course introduces global disparities in the experience of well-being and development from the perspective of Development Studies and Anthropology. It will look at ways humanities and social sciences engage with debates about the relationship between humans and the more-than-human world and initiatives to adapt to current environmental and social challenges.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is organized into lectures based on exploring concepts and topics related to sustainable development, plus 1 guest lecture or documentary screening giving examples of how interdisciplinary research of different scales in different contexts brings insights to these issues. Students are advised to read course materials and contribute to in-class discussions. They are also required to present articles as a group on their chosen topics and individually submit a written-work on one of the topics.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
**Week 1 Introduction & Logistics**
**Week 2 Anthropocene & Global Sustainable Advocacy**
_Reference Readings_
  1. Sexsmith, K., & P, McMichael. (2015). ‘Formulating the SDGs: Reproducing or Reimagining State-Centered Development?’. _Globalizations,_ 12(4), 581–596. 
  2. Lele, S. M. (1991). ‘Sustainable Development: A Critical Review’. _World Development_ , 19(6), 607-621.
  3. Scoville-Simonds, Morgan. 2018. Climate, the Earth, and God – Entangled narratives of cultural and climatic change in the Peruvian Andes. World Development 110: 345-359.


**Week 3 Climate Change & Circular Economy**
_Required Readings_
  1. Reike, D., Vermeulena, W., & Witjes, S. (2018). The circular economy: new or refurbished as CE 3.0? — exploring controversies in the conceptualization of the circular economy through a focus on history and resource value retention options. _Resources, Conservation & Recycling_, 135, 246–264.
  2. Schröder, P., Lemille, A., & Desmond, P. (2020). Making the circular economy work for human development. _Resources, Conservation & Recycling_, 156.


_Further Reading_
Adger, W. N. (2001). ‘Scales of governance and environmental justice for adaptation and mitigation of climate change’. _Journal of international development_ , 13 (7), 921-931.
**Week****4****Emotion & Morality **
_Required Readings_
  1. Tanya Jakimow (2022) Understanding power in development studies through emotion and affect: promising lines of enquiry, Third World Quarterly, 43:3, 513-524.
  2. Qizilbash, Mozaffar. 1996. Ethical development, _World Development_ 24 (7): 1209-1221.


_Further Reading_
Sochanny Hak, Yvonne Underhill-Sem & Chanrith Ngin (2022) Indigenous peoples’ responses to land exclusions: emotions, affective links and power relations, Third World Quarterly, 43:3, 525-542.
**Week 5****Food & Agriculture**
_Required Readings_
  1. Myers, S et al. (2017). ‘Climate change and global food systems: potential impacts on food security and undernutrition’. _Ann Rev Public Health_ , 38, 259-277.
  2. María Elena Martínez-Torres & Peter, M. Rosset. (2014). ‘Diálogo de saberes in La Vía Campesina: Food sovereignty and agroecology’. _The Journal of Peasant Studies_ , 41(6), 979–997.


_Further Reading_
Ho, Hao-Tzu. 2019. Cosmopolitan Locavorism: Global Local-food Movements in Postcolonial Hong Kong. Food, Culture & Society 23(2): 137-154.
**Week 6 Energy & Off-grid Initiatives**
_Required Readings_
  1. Winther, T., & Wilhite, H. (2015). ‘Tentacles of Modernity: Why Electricity Needs Anthropology’. _Cultural Anthropology, 30(4), 569–577._
  2. Campbell, B., J. Cloke, & E. Brown. (2016). ‘Communities of Energy’. _Economic Anthropology_ , 3(1), 133–144.


_Further Reading_
Henning, Annette. (2005). ‘Climate Change and Energy Use’. _Anthropology Today,_ 21(3), 8-12.
**Week 7 Water**
_Required Readings_
  1. Strang, V. (2014). ‘The Taniwha and the Crown: defending water rights in Aotearoa/New Zealand’. _Wiley interdisciplinary reviews: water_ , 1 (1). 121-131. 
  2. Nupur Joshi, Andrea K. Gerlak, Corrie Hannah, Sara Lopus, Natasha Krell, Tom Evans. 2023. Water insecurity, housing tenure, and the role of informal water services in Nairobi’s slum settlements. _World Development_ 164, 106165.


_Further Reading_
François Molle (2009). Water, politics and river basin governance: repoliticizing approaches to river basin management,  _Water International_ , 34:1, 62-70.
**Week 8 ESG, CSR & Gender (Guest Speech)**
_Required Readings_
  1. Kuokkanen, Rauna. (2011). Indigenous Economies, Theories of Subsistence, and Women: Exploring the Social Economy Model for Indigenous Governance. _American Indian Quarterly_ , 35 (2), 215-240.
  2. Archer, M. (2022). The ethics of ESG, Focaal, 2022(93), 18-31.


_Further Reading_
Blowfield, M. (2005). Corporate Social Responsibility: Reinventing the Meaning of Development? International Affairs (Royal Institute of International Affairs 1944-), 81(3), 515–524.
**Week 9 Environmental Migration, Refugee, Activism and Justice**
_Required Readings_
  1. Marino, E., & Lazrus, H. (2015). Migration or Forced Displacement? The Complex Choices of Climate Change and Disaster Migrants in Shishmaref, Alaska and Nanumea, Tuvalu. Human Organization, 74(4), 341–350.
  2. Checker, M. (2007). “But I Know It’s True”: Environmental Risk Assessment, Justice, and Anthropology. Human Organization, 66(2), 112–124.


_Further Reading_
Campbell, Ben. (2005). ‘Changing Protection Policies and Ethnographies of Environmental Engagement’. _Conservation and Society_ , 3(2), 280–322.
**Week 10 Waste & Recycling**
_Required Readings_
  1. Alexander, C and Reno, J.O (2020). 'Global entanglements of recycling policy and practice.', in Oxford research encyclopaedia of anthropology. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
  2. Laura Siragusa, Dmitry Arzyutov (2020). Nothing goes to waste: sustainable practices of re-use among Indigenous groups in the Russian North, _Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability_ , 43, 41-48.


_Further Reading_
Judith Schlehe & Vissia Ita Yulianto (2020). An anthropology of waste, Indonesia and the Malay World, 48:140, 40-59.
**Week 11 Folk Approaches, Indigenous Knowledge, and Innovative Technology**
_Required Readings_
  1. DePuy, Walker. 2023. Seeing like a smartphone: The co-production of landscape-scale and rights-based conservation. _World Development_ , Volume 164, 106181.
  2. Andrea M Vásquez-Fernández, Cash Ahenakew pii tai poo taa. 2020. Resurgence of relationality: reflections on decolonizing and indigenizing ‘sustainable development’. _Current Opinion in Environmental Sustainability_ 43: 65-70.


_Further Reading_
Rivera-Gonzalez, Joyce, Jennifer Trivedi, Elizabeth K. Marino, and Alexa Dietrich. 2022. "Imagining an Ethnographic Otherwise during a Pandemic." Human Organization 81 (3): 291-300.
**Week 12 Resilience, Eco-village, and Alternative Settlements**
_Required Readings_
  1. Siobhan McDonnell (2020) Other Dark Sides of Resilience: Politics and Power in Community-Based Efforts to Strengthen Resilience, Anthropological Forum, 30:1-2, 55-72.
  2. Jung, Shaw-Wu. 2016. Landscapes and governance: practicing citizenship in the construction of an eco-village in Taiwan, Citizenship Studies, 20:3-4, 510-526.


_Further Reading_
Neal, S. (2013). Transition Culture: Politics, Localities and Ruralities. _Journal of Rural Studies_ , 32, 60-69.
**Week 13 Global Health**
_Required Readings_
  1. Brown, T. M., Cueto, M., & Fee, E. (2006). ‘The World Health Organization and the transition from ‘International’ to ‘Global’ public health’. _American Journal of Public Health,_ 96(1), 1-11.
  2. Kleinman, A. (2010). ‘The art of medicine: Four social theories for global health’. _Lancet_ , 375, 1518-9.


_Further Reading_
Pigg, Stacy Leigh. (2013). ‘On sitting and doing: Ethnography as action in global health’. _Social Science & Medicine, _99, 127-134. 
**Week 14 University Sports Day._No class._**
**Week 15 Mental Health, Happiness, and Well-being**
_Required Readings_
  1. Cook, Samantha, Laurie Richmond, Jocelyn Enevoldsen, Kelly Sayce, Rachelle Fisher, Cheryl Chen, Jon Bonkoski, Denise Chin, Joice Chang, and Mikayla Kia. 2022. "The Zoom Where it Happens: Using a Virtual, Mixed-Methods Focus Group Approach to Assess Community Well-being in Natural Resource Contexts." Human Organization 81 (3): 248-270.
  2. Mariana Piva da Silva, James A. Fraser, Luke Parry. 2022. From ‘prison’ to ‘paradise’? Seeking freedom at the rainforest frontier through urban–rural migration. _World Development_ 160, 106077.


_Further Reading_
Mathews, G. (2012). ‘Happiness, culture, and context’. _International Journal of Wellbeing_ 2, 299–312.
**Week 16 Documentary Screening. (Instructor departs for a conference.)**
**Week 17 Flexible Supplementary Teaching Week: Completing the Term Paper.**
**Week 18 Flexible Supplementary Teaching Week: Submit the Term Paper.**
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  1. _Group oral presentation (30%)_
  2. _Attendance & participation in discussion (40%)_
  3. _Individual final project (30%)_


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  1. Redclift, M. (1987). _Sustainable Development: Exploring the Contradictions_. London: Methuen.
  2. Lee, K., Holland, A., & McNeill, D. (2000). _Global Sustainable Development in the 21st Century_. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press. 
  3. Oosterveer, P., & Sonnenfeld, D. A. (2012). _Food, Globalization and Sustainability_. New York: Earthscan.
  4. Crewe, E., & Axelby, R. (2013). _Anthropology and Development: Culture, Morality and Politics in a Globalised World_. Cambridge University Press.
  5. Tsing, A. (2017). _Arts of living on a damaged planet: ghosts and monsters of the anthropocene_. London: University of Minnesota Press.
  6. Leach, M., Scoones, I., & Stirling, A. (2010). _Dynamic Sustainabilities: Technology, Environment, Social Justice._ London: Earthscan.


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Students are allowed to employ generative AI to identify academic literature and course-related information/materials for the purpose of brainstroming.  Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment. (email)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
