國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：刑事證據法專題研究（六）
#####  Course Name: Seminar on Criminal Evidence Law （VI）
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：601323001 Course No.601323001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_10_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：法律三甲、法律三乙、法律三丙、法律四甲、法律四乙、法律四丙 Course Department:Law/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：楊雲驊、簡士淳 Instructor: YANG YUN-HUA/CHIEN SHIH-CHUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五78 Session: fri16-18


##  課程簡介Course Description
Course Description/Objectives
Mass incarceration, mass post-conviction supervision, significant outcome disparity and elusive systems-wide alignment, continue to be the defining characteristics of the U.S. criminal justice system. This seminar will examine criminal justice reform in the United States from both policy and advocacy perspectives. The course will examine: 1) the problems with the American criminal justice system; 2) the institutional actors involved in the effort to create criminal justice reform; 3) the ideas currently circulating to address specific problems in the system; and 4) the strategies used in pressing for criminal justice reform through both policy change and litigation. The seminar will highlight the roles and interests of key stakeholders in the criminal justice system—including judges, prosecutors, law enforcement, correctional officers, as well as scholars and advocates for reform.
Balancing the need for individual accountability, the fundamental constitutional mandate to protect the rights of the accused, and the community’s desire and expectation for public safety is the central challenge to establishing a fair, efficient, and just criminal justice system. The course will provide you with an overview of the issues, challenges and outcomes that define the criminal justice system in the United States and a review of the theories, processes and procedures that create them.
Here are the questions we will explore: What are society’s goals? What are the system’s goals? How do the results align with the goals? What are the issues that drive the need for reform and what are the challenges that complicate the effort to reform?
The first three parts of the course will introduce you to the issues of constitutional criminal procedure in the United States. Our primary focus will be issues arising out of the Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Amendments to the United States Constitution. We will also cover a few procedural issues such as plea bargaining, eyewitness identification, and jury trials. We will help you build a foundational knowledge about substantive and procedural issues of American criminal procedure. In addition, the course will help you develop strong analytical and reasoning skills for legal practices.
Underlying the discussion of constitutional criminal procedure is a debate about police power. It is a conversation that brings up hard issues of racial justice, poverty, surveillance, and why we criminalize certain behaviors. The constitutional rights protected in the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, and Eighth Amendments are limitations on government power. How society has balanced those rights has changed over time and continues to evolve. We are in the middle of a national conversation on race and criminal justice, and this class will address how that police power has been directed against African-Americans, Latinos, immigrants, and citizens in poor communities. Every generation must balance issues of privacy, liberty, public safety, criminal investigation, and punishment anew.
In the last two parts of the course, we turn to the professional and ethical laws governing attorneys in the criminal justice system. We will cover issues affecting both prosecutors and defense attorneys and the applicable rules of professional conduct. The course will work to deepen your understanding of the role and responsibilities of criminal justice attorneys in society. Specifically, we will deal with questions underlying the responsibilities of prosecutors and defense lawyers to self, society, client, and the profession. The class will provide you with the analysis and authorities necessary to understand the issues and underlying policies. Issues concerning the lawyer’s role in criminal law practice and roles within the context of the adversary system are examined in some detail, as is the idea of professionalism.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業知識
  * B. 實務運用
  * C. 表達溝通
  * D. 社會參與
  * E. 人文關懷
  * F. 國際視野


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This seminar will examine criminal justice reform in the United States from both policy and advocacy perspectives. The course will examine: 1) the problems with the American criminal justice system; 2) the institutional actors involved in the effort to create criminal justice reform; 3) the ideas currently circulating to address specific problems in the system; and 4) the strategies used in pressing for criminal justice reform through both policy change and litigation. The seminar will highlight the roles and interests of key stakeholders in the criminal justice system—including judges, prosecutors, law enforcement, correctional officers, as well as scholars and advocates for reform.
We will help you build a foundational knowledge about substantive and procedural issues of American criminal procedure. In addition, the course will help you develop strong analytical and reasoning skills for legal practices.
We are in the middle of a national conversation on race and criminal justice, and this class will address how that police power has been directed against African-Americans, Latinos, immigrants, and citizens in poor communities. Every generation must balance issues of privacy, liberty, public safety, criminal investigation, and punishment anew.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Class Outline 
Part 1: Introduction—The American Way of Justice 
§ The criminal process in the United States 
§ Goals of criminal procedure 
§ Criminal justice as a “system” 
§ The “war on drugs” 
§ Excessive punishment 
Part 2: The Fourth Amendment 
§ The threshold of the Fourth Amendment 
§ Searches and seizures 
§ The warrant and probable cause requirements 
§ Exceptions to warrant and/or probable cause requirements 
§ Regulating technological policing 
§ Pretextual and predatory policing 
Part 3: The Fifth and Sixth Amendments 
§ Interrogation and entrapment 
§ Miranda rights 
§ Miranda’s hidden rights 
§ “Custody,” “interrogation,” “self–incriminating,” “testimonial” 
§ Invocation and waiver 
Part 4: Professional Ethics I 
§ History and overview of the regulation of the legal profession 
§ The role of the prosecutor 
§ The charging decision and the grand jury 
§ The defense counsel’s duty to provide zealous advocacy 
Part 5: Professional Ethics II 
§ Discovery and Brady 
§ Punishment without trial: guilty pleas and plea bargaining 
§ Prosecutorial misconduct and wrongful convictions 
Part 6: The Path Forward—Lessons for Taiwan 
§ Police reform 
§ Prosecutorial reform 
§ Bail reform 
§ Juvenile justice reform 
§ Prison reform 
§ Re-entry reform 
§ Evidence-based criminal justice reform
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Grading
70% Final Paper
30% Class Participation
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Readings for the course will include selected pages from DEVON W. CARBADO, UNREASONABLE: BLACK LIVES, POLICE POWER, AND THE FOURTH AMENDMENT (2022) and CHRISTOPHER SLOBOGIN, ADVANCED INTRODUCTION TO U.S. CRIMINAL PROCEDURE (2020), along with U.S. Supreme Court case law, social science literature, news reports, and scholarly and advocacy white papers. All required readings are posted on TBD. There is no need to purchase any materials.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Research Guides for Criminal Law and Procedure: 
https://guides.law.csuohio.edu/c.php?g=190546&p=1258384
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/02/17 ChristopherSlob_2020_1AnOverviewOfAmerican_AdvancedIntroductionT copy.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Discuss in class
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
