國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：財政學
#####  Course Name: Public Finance
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000221012 Course No.000221012
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：財政系 Course Department:Public Finance 
  * 授課老師：陳國樑 Instructor: CHEN JOE 
  * 先修科目：[ 財政學(單學期)(有修即可)]Prerequisite([ Finance])
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
(This syllabus is required by the school administrators; the class will proceed based on the syllabus and announcement published on the course web page.)
Public finance is a field of economics mainly concerned with government (or other collective organizations') activities and the associated economic effects. The understanding of government activities and the associated economic effects helps in the design and administration of public policies. The field is often divided into questions of what the government should do or are doing (expenditure side), and questions of how to pay for those activities (revenue side).
- On the expenditure side, one may classify government expenditures into three main types. Government purchases of goods and services for current use are classed as government consumption. Government purchases of goods and services intended to create future benefits---such as infrastructure investment or research spending---are classed as government investment. Government expenditures that are not purchases of goods and services, and instead just represent transfers of money---such as social security payments---are called transfer payments. The associated effects of various government expenditures on economic incentives and on the distribution of income, wealth, and/or consumption are the focus of expenditure-side studies.
- On the revenue side, government financing can be achieved by taxes, debts (government borrowing), asset sales, earnings made by public enterprises, seigniorage, and/or other means. How a government chooses to finance its activities must have effects on the distribution of income, wealth, and/or consumption, and on the efficiency of markets. The main theme of this course on the revenue side is taxation. The issue of how taxes affect income and wealth distribution is the focus of tax incidence studies; the issue of how taxes affect efficiency performance is the focus of efficient taxation studies. In addition, revenue side studies also analyze the effects of various types of taxes and types of borrowing as well as administrative concerns, such as tax evasion and enforcement.
In addition to the term "public finance", a broader term—public economics—and a narrower term—government finance—are also used often. As a late comer, the public choice school to public finance becomes somewhat popular from the 80's. It seeks to explain how self-interested voters, politicians, and bureaucrats actually operate, rather than how they should operate.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備人文社會科學基礎與專業知能(Have a foundation of humanities and social sciences and professional knowledge)
  * B. 具備獨立思考與研究能力 (Possess independent thinking and research capabilities)
  * C. 具備反省、批判、溝通之能力 (Ability to reflect, criticize and communicate)
  * D. 具備發現、分析、解決問題之能力 (Ability to discover, analyze and solve problems)
  * E. 具備人文社會關懷與民主法治素養 (Possess the ability to use social care, democracy, and the rule of law in the humanities)
  * F. 增進社會參與及社會服務之實踐能力 (Improve the practical ability of social participation and service)
  * G. 具備領導能力與團隊精神 (Have leadership skills and team spirit)
  * H. 提升國際視野與外語能力 (Improve international perspective and foreign language ability)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The purpose of this course is to provide you with a theoretical framework in the discipline of public finance. My objectives are to stimulate thinking based on the framework, and to prepare you for continuing your pursuit in the field of public finance.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
There are 9 (T1–9) lecture topics in the fall semester, except the first two, each lecture takes about two weeks: 
T1 (1W) Course Introduction: lecture notes
T2 (1W) More Introduction and Background: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T3 (2W) Public Goods: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T4 (2W) Externalities: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T5 (1-2W) Political Economy: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T6 (1-2W) Cost Benefit Analysis: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T7 (2W) The Health Care Market: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T8 (1-2W) Social Security: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T9 (1-2W) Income Redistribution: Conceptual Issues
T10 (2W) Guided self-directed learning
Except T1 and T10, there are homeworks at the end of each lecture. The midterm exam and the final exam will be scheduled according to the school calendar.  
There are also 9 (T1–9) lecture topics in the spring semester, except T1 and T5, each lecture takes about two weeks:
T1 (1W) Course Introduction: lecture notes
T2 (2W) Taxation and Distribution: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T3 (2W) Taxation and Efficiency: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T4 (2W) Efficiency and Equitable Taxation: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T5 (1W) An Introduction to the Tax System: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T6 (2W) Personal Income Tax: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T7 (1-2W) Personal Taxation and Behavior: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T8 (1-2W) Corporate Income Tax: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T9 (1-2W) Fundamental Tax Reform: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T10 (2W) Guided self-directed learning
Except T1 and T10, there are homeworks at the end of each lecture. The midterm exam and the final exam will be scheduled according to the school calendar.
####  其他： Others: There are weekly TA sessions. 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.