國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：經濟學 
#####  Course Name: Economics
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000219562 Course No.000219562
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國貿系 Course Department:International Business 
  * 授課老師：朴民佑 Instructor: PARK MINWOO 
  * 先修科目：[ 經濟學(單學期)(有修即可)]Prerequisite([ Economics])
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This is the first economics course designed for freshmen and the second half of a year-long course. You should have completed the first half of the Principles of Economics course before taking this one. The second half covers a wide range of macroeconomic topics such as GDP, growth, finance, money, global markets, and macroeconomic policies.
A basic knowledge of calculus is desirable but not necessary. (A math review will be provided as the semester progresses.)  
_This is the second half of a year-long course._  
_TA sessions (Mandatory): Friday 12pm-1pm._  
_Lectures will be given in English only._
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course aims to familiarize students with the way economists think. The tools learned in the course will help students understand and analyze economic issues clearly. They will be able to read and debate the articles in economic and business newspapers more effectively, which is vital in conducting international business.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1  
Feb 20 |  Introduction |  What is Macroeconomics? |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
2  
Feb 27 |  National Accounting and Growth |  Measuring Nation’s Income and Cost of Living (Ch. 23-24) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
3  
Mar 6 |  Production and Growth (Ch. 25) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
4  
Mar 13 |  Finance |  Saving, Investment and the Financial System (Ch. 26) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
5  
Mar 20 |  Tools of Finance (Ch. 27) and Unemployment (Ch. 28) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
6  
Mar 27 |  Midterm Exam 1  
7  
Apr 3 |  National Holiday  
8  
Apr 10 |  Money |  Monetary System (Ch. 29) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
9  
Apr 17 |  Money Growth and Inflation (Ch. 30) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
10  
Apr 24 |  Open Macro |  Open-Economy Macroeconomics (Ch. 31) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
11  
May 1 |  Macroeconomic Theory of the Open Economy (Ch. 32) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
12  
May 8 |  Midterm Exam 2  
13  
May 15 |  AD-AS |  Aggregate Demand and Aggregate Supply (Ch. 33) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
14  
May 22 |  Macro Policies |  The Influence of Monetary and Fiscal Policy on Aggregate Demand (Ch. 34) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
15  
May 29 |  The Short-Run Tradeoff between Inflation and Unemployment (Ch. 35) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
16  
Jun 5 |  Review |  Review - Six Debates over Macroeconomic Policy (Ch. 36) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
17  
Jun 12 |  Flexible Week  
18  
TBD |  Final Exam (Joint)  
Class Attendance : Class attendance is strongly recommended. Students registered for the course who do not regularly come to class may receive a grade of ND. However, I do not take attendance in a regular basis and the grades are granted based on exams.
Policy on missed exam : The dates of the midterm and final exams are fixed. Students who experience a serious medical condition that requires immediate attention from a physician, or an emergency that prevents them from taking the exam may be excused. However, students must contact the instructor _before_ the exam and must _verify_ their condition by official documents. No exceptions will be made for job interviews, holiday travel, or other non-academic activities. When a student is properly excused from an exam, no make-up exam will be offered. Instead, his or her course grade will be adjusted based on other exams and homework.
Policy on Regrading: If, after reviewing the exam answers, a student feels that there is a grading mistake on his or her exam, that student can submit a re-grade request. The student must submit a written discussion _within one week_ from the time at which the exams are handed back. When regrade request is accepted, the entire exam will be regraded, which could lower the score as well.
Academic Dishonesty: Cheating hurts our community by undermining academic integrity, creating mistrust, and fostering unfair competition. The university will punish cheaters with failure on an assignment, failure in a course, permanent transcript notation, and/or expulsion. Violations can include cheating on exams, plagiarism, reuse of assignments without permission, improper use of the Internet and electronic devices, unauthorized collaboration, alteration of graded assignments, forgery, falsification and lying. 
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.