國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：個體經濟學
#####  Course Name: Microeconomics
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000217022 Course No.000217022
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：經濟系 Course Department:Economics 
  * 授課老師：李慧琳 Instructor: LEE HUEY-LIN 
  * 先修科目：[ 個體經濟學(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([ Microeconomia])
  * 上課時間：一D56 Session: mon13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This is a one-year course, with 3-credit per semester, required for students majoring in Economics. This course is designed to introduce to undergraduate students the concepts, theories, and applications of Microeconomics. 
科目代號000217022 個體經濟學 (李慧琳老師)
若第一週上課當日無法前來教室上課，可透過Google Meet 參與課程。  
[113-2 Micro] 星期一D56 13:10 - 16:00 Google Meet 會議視訊通話連結：https://meet.google.com/qtf-serg-mqd
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備人文社會科學基礎與專業知能(Have a foundation of humanities and social sciences and professional knowledge)
  * B. 具備獨立思考與研究能力 (Possess independent thinking and research capabilities)
  * C. 具備反省、批判、溝通之能力 (Ability to reflect, criticize and communicate)
  * D. 具備發現、分析、解決問題之能力 (Ability to discover, analyze and solve problems)
  * E. 具備人文社會關懷與民主法治素養 (Possess the ability to use social care, democracy, and the rule of law in the humanities)
  * F. 增進社會參與及社會服務之實踐能力 (Improve the practical ability of social participation and service)
  * G. 具備領導能力與團隊精神 (Have leadership skills and team spirit)
  * H. 提升國際視野與外語能力 (Improve international perspective and foreign language ability)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Through this course the attempt is made to build in students basic analytical skills that, jointly with skills learned from macroeconomics, will enable them to understand and to cope with real-world economic issues. As such, students are encouraged to apply theory to practice and also to reason on the basis of sound Economics theories. Students will organize small groups to read and report, as a team, academic journal papers which demonstrates how microeconomic theories and analytical framework are applied in the real-world issues.
In addition to the knowledge of Microeconomics theories, the participants will gain experiences in doing academic literature review and writing-up that summaries key points and insights of the reviewed academic literature.
In the Spring semester, we focus on production and cost theory in Microeconomics, applying the concepts of optimization which have been introduced in the Fall semester.
Spring semester:
_A. Lectures:_
Part II: Profit-Maximizing Choice: Producers (or “Firms”), covering Ch. 11-13.
Part III: Competitive Markets and the “invisible hand”, covering Ch. 14-16.
Part IV: Distortions of the “invisible hand” in Competitive Markets, covering Ch. 18-21.
Part V: Distortions of the “invisible hand” from strategic Decisions, covering Ch. 23-25.
_B. Group projects:_
Journal papers on producer and factor market related topics.
Fall semester (completed by now):
_A. Lectures:_
Part I: utility-Maximizing Choice: Consumers, workers, and savers, covering Ch. 1-10.
_B. Group projects:_
Journal papers on consumer related topics.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Averagely, one chapter will take one week’s lecture time, although some chapters may take more or less time than average. As the university policy requires, students will need to spend at the minimum three hours per week on top of the lecture of the week. I suggest the students of this course study the main textbook before the weekly lecture so as to get better comprehension of the lecture and also more involved participation in the class discussion on the applications and analyses of the theories introduced. Oral presentations of the small groups are scheduled in the later part of the semester, and written reports should be submitted by the last week of the semester.
Part I. Weekly lectures:
週次 |  課程內容與指定閱讀 |  教學活動與課前、課後作業 |  學生學習投入時間 （含課堂教學時數）  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Overview and introduction to course activities, as well as group arrangement. |  Lecture |  3  
2 |  Chapter 11: One Input and One Output: A Short-Run Producer Model (1 week) |  Lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
3 |  Chapter 12: Production with Multiple Inputs (1 week) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
4 |  Chapter 13: Production Decisions in the Short and Long Run (1 week) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
5 |  Library resource workshop (1 week) |  Lecture/hands-on exercise |  3  
6 |  Chapter 14: Competitive Market Equilibrium (1 week) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
7 |  Chapter 15: The “Invisible Hand” and the First Welfare Theorem (1 week) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
8 |  Chapter 16: General Equilibrium (1 week) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
9 |  Chapter 18: Elasticities, Price-Distorting Policies, and Non-Price Rationing (1 week) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
10 |  Chapter 19: Distortionary Taxes and Subsidies (1 week) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
11 |  Chapter 20: Prices and Distortions across Markets (1 week) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
12 |  Chapter 21: Externalities in Competitive Markets (1 week) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
13 |  Chapter 23: Monopoly (1 week) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
14 |  Chapter 25: Oligopoly (1 week) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
15 |  Final exam (1 week) |  Do exam |  3  
16-17 |  Oral Presentations of the Group Projects (2 weeks) |  student presentations |  3+ as much as possible.  
18 |  Written Reports of the Group Projects |  student presentations in writing. |  3+ as much as possible.  
Part II. Group projects:
Students are asked to organize small groups (size to be decided in the first class meeting) to read and report, as a team, academic journal papers or books which demonstrates how microeconomic theories and analytical framework, as introduced in the course, are applied in the real-world issues.
Students need to find their partners themselves for the group project, and to make a preliminary presentation on the project topic and outline by the designated dates. Groups have to set their work schedule and management plan for the project. Formal presentations of the group projects consist of two parts: oral and written. Oral presentations shall be given after the final exam of this course, and written reports are due the last week of the semester.
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.