國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：初級會計學（二）
#####  Course Name: Fundamental Accounting (II)
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000318071 Course No.000318071
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：會計系 Course Department:Accounting 
  * 授課老師：陳宇紳 Instructor: CHEN YU SHEN 
  * 先修科目：[ 初級會計學（一）(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([])
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to provide a basic understanding of financial accounting and covers various financial accounting topics, including basic accounting theory, accounting principles, procedures to record business transactions, measurements of assets and liabilities and preparations for financial statements. More importantly, students will learn how accounting information assists financial statement users in facilitating their decision making.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
## _Aims & Objectives_
Accounting is the language of business, facilitating communication of the financial aspects of business. This module provides an introduction to the financial accounting branch of accounting. The activities and events of a business entity are summarized by the financial accounting process into published financial statements to be used by external users such as investors and creditors. Such users would need to understand both the financial accounting process and its outputs in order to make investing or lending decisions. Therefore, students will learn how to prepare simple financial statements and also learn how to read, understand and use published financial statements for decision-making. Published financial statements of listed companies will be used as examples.
## _Learning Outcomes_
After completing this course, you will be able to:
  * Describe the nature and purpose of accounting for business.
  * Comprehend terminology and basic concepts underlying financial accounting.
  * Recognize that accounting is not a precise science but relies heavily on judgments and estimates.
  * Grasp common elements of the financial statements and prepare financial statements.
  * Perform basic financial statement analysis and interpret financial reports.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
18週18 weeks | 無彈性補充教學週No flexible supplemental instruction week  
_Week_ |  _Lecture Date_ |  _Chapter_ |  _Topics & Readings_  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  02/18 |  - |  Overview  
2 |  02/25 |  Ch 9 |  Plant Assets, Natural Resources, and Intangible Assets (I)  
3 |  03/04 |  Ch 9 |  Plant Assets, Natural Resources, and Intangible Assets (II)  
4 |  03/11 |  Ch 10 |  Current Liabilities   
5 |  03/18 |  Ch 11 |  Non-current Liabilities (I)  
6 |  03/25 |  |  Mid-term Exam 1  
7 |  04/01 |  |  Online Learning: Topics on Plant Assets and Liabilities  
8 |  04/08 |  Ch 11 |  Non-current Liabilities (II)  
9 |  04/15 |  Ch 12 |  Corporations (I)  
10 |  04/22 |  Ch 12 |  Corporations (II)  
11 |  04/29 |  Ch 13 |  Investment (I)  
12 |  05/06 |  |  Mid-term Exam 2  
13 |  05/13 |  Ch 13 |  Investment (II)  
14 |  05/20 |  |  Public Holiday  
15 |  05/27 |  Ch 14 |  Statement of Cash Flows (I)  
16 |  06/03 |  Ch 14 |  Statement of Cash Flows (II)  
17 |  06/10 |  Ch 15 |  Financial Statement Analysis  
18 |  06/17 |  |  Final Exam  
####  其他： Others:
## Grading
Your final grade will be based upon the following distribution:
|  % |  Note  
---|---|---  
Mid-term exam 1 |  20% |  (A)  
Mid-term exam 2 |  20% |  (A)  
Final Exam |  30% |  (A)  
Quizzes |  10% |  (B)  
Cases |  10% |  (C)  
Class participation |  10% |  (D)  
Total |  100% |   
## Prescribed Textbook
Weygandt & Kimmel (with Nai-Hui Su), Financial Accounting with IFRS, 5th Wiley Custom Edition. 
ISBN: 978-1-394-194766
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.