國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：初級會計學（二）
#####  Course Name: Fundamental Accounting (II)
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000318011 Course No.000318011
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：會計系 Course Department:Accounting 
  * 授課老師：徐愛恩 Instructor: STEPHANIE TSUI 
  * 先修科目：[ 初級會計學（一）(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([])
  * 上課時間：一D56 Session: mon13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is the second part of a two-semester sequence in Introductory Financial Accounting. It deepens students' understanding of financial reporting processes, emphasizing core accounting concepts and principles. The course explores how a firm’s economic transactions are recorded and reflected in financial statements and related disclosures. The primary goal is to equip students with the foundational skills to prepare, interpret, and utilize financial statements effectively. Additionally, this course prepares students for advanced financial accounting studies and aims to develop their proficiency as both preparers and users of financial accounting information.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is designed to provide a comprehensive understanding of fundamental financial accounting. The subject matter is rigorous and demanding, requiring significant effort, especially for college freshmen adapting to their new academic environment. Success in this course will depend on your dedication and commitment outside of structured learning activities. It is essential to stay consistent and come prepared to engage with the course material.
The course content is delivered through video lectures, assigned readings, and problem-solving exercises. To maximize your understanding, you should watch all assigned videos attentively, review the related readings thoroughly, and complete all homework problems. Active engagement with the material—such as taking notes, reflecting on the concepts, and attempting to solve problems independently—will be crucial for your success in this course.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
18週18 weeks | 無彈性補充教學週No flexible supplemental instruction week  
Week |  |  Assigned Readings |  Teaching Mode  
---|---|---|---  
1(2/17) |  Class Introduction |  |  In-Person  
2 (2/24) |  Review Ch 1-8 Assignment  |  |  Online  
3 (3/3) |  Chapter 9– Long-term Assets |  Chapter 9 |  Online  
4 (3/10) |  Chapter 10 – Financing： Current Liabilities |  Chapter 10 | Online  
5 (3/17) |  Chapter 11 – Financing： Long-Term Liabilities Quiz 1 |  Chapter 11 | In-Person  
6 (3/24) |  Review |  |  In-Person  
7 (3/31) |  Exam 1 |  |  In-Person  
8 (4/7) |  Chapter 12 – Financing：Equity |  Chapter 12 |  Online  
9 (4/14) |  Chapter 12 – Financing：Equity |  Chapter 12 |  Online  
10 (4/21) |  Chapter 13 – Investments |  Chapter 13 | Online  
11 (4/28) |  Chapter 13 – Investments Quiz 2 |  Chapter 13 |  In-Person  
12 (5/5) |  Review |  | Online  
13 (5/12) |  Exam 2 |  |  In-Person  
14 (5/19) |  Chapter 14 – Statement of Cash Flows |  Chapter 14 |  Online  
15 (5/26) |  Chapter 15 – Analyzing Financial Statements |  Chapter 15 |  Online  
16 (6/2) |  Quiz 3 |  |  In-Person  
17 (6/9) |  Q& A |  |  In-Person  
18 TBA |  Exam 3 |  |  In-Person  
Tentative schedule and subject to changes.
####  其他： Others:
## Textbook & References
T _extbook_
_Financial Accounting With IFRS_ , 5th Edition (Wiley Custom Edition) by Weygandt, Kimmel, and Kieso.
Reference
_Financial Accounting IFRS_ , 3rd edition by Wild, Kwok, Shaw, Chiappeta, and Liu. 2018.
ISBN: 978-986-96031-1-9
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.