國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際關係
#####  Course Name: International Relations
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：010117001 Course No.010117001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外交系 Course Department:Diplomacy 
  * 授課老師：楊一逵 Instructor: YANG I-KWEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
Course Description:
This English-taught course aims to provide students with a solid theoretical framework and conceptual tools in International Relations (IR). It offers insights into the issues and arguments of contemporary IR debates, encompassing both high politics and low politics. The course will begin with an introduction to transnational actors and the current dilemmas of global governance and globalization. An overview of international relations theories will be provided, followed by highlights of classical realism, neorealism, and dimensions of power, along with discussions on security alliances. Theories related to foreign policy decision-making, such as defensive realism, offensive realism, and neoclassical realism, will be explored. Lastly, the course will integrate discussions on issues pertinent to the global south, foreign aid, and international development. Students are expected to become familiar with IR theories, debates, and current global affairs, and to develop their own perspectives.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 國際關係專業知能
  * B. 具備區域政經文社整合知識
  * C. 研究思辨能力
  * D. 具備反思與克服變遷能力
  * E. 語言運用能力
  * F. 國際運籌帷幄能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Objectives and Outcomes:
  1. Students will be equipped with theoretical tools of classical realism, neorealism, defensive and offensive realism, neoclassical realism, liberalism, neoliberalism and constructivism.
  2. Will be able to frame their own IR discourse and apply IR theories to evaluation.
  3. Will be engaged with updated information of international affairs.
  4. Will be equipped with research and writing skills.
  5. Will sharpen their speaking and presentation skills via discussion, short talks and group presentation.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Date  |  Topic  |  Activity and Notes   
---|---|---  
Feb. 18 |  _World Politics: Trend & Transformation_ Chapter 1: Discovering World Politics and Distinguishing Transnational Actors (P4-P19) |   
Feb. 25 |  _World Politics: Trend & Transformation_ Chapter 6: Non-state Actors and the Quest for Global Community (P160-P201) |  Grouping into 8 or 10  (5-6 people per group)  
Mar. 4 |  _World Politics: Trend & Transformation_ Chapter 6: Non-state Actors and the Quest for Global Community (P160-P201) |   
Mar. 11 |  _World Politics: Trend & Transformation_ Chapter 2: Interpreting World Politics through the Lens of Theory (P23-P53) |  International News Report 1: G1, G2  
Mar. 18 |  _World Politics: Trend & Transformation_ Chapter 2: Interpreting World Politics through the Lens of Theory (P23-P53) |  International News Report 1: G3, G4  
Mar. 25 |  _World Politics: Trend & Transformation_ Chapter 4: Great Power Relations and Rivalries  (P92-P116) |  International News Report 1: G5, G6  
Apr. 1 |  _World Politics: Trend & Transformation_ Chapter 4: Great Power Relations and Rivalries (P92-P116) |  International News Report 1: G7, G8  
Apr. 8 |  _World Politics: Trend & Transformation_ Chapter 8: The Pursuit of Power Through Arms and Alliances (P244-P281) |  International News  Report 1: G9, G10  
Apr. 15 |  _Midterm Week_ |  *Individual Project 1 due on 10:00 pm of Apr. 15, 2025 (15%)  
Apr. 22 |  _World Politics: Trend & Transformation_ Chapter 8: The Pursuit of Power Through Arms and Alliances (P244-P281) |   
Apr. 29 |  _World Politics: Trend & Transformation_ Chapter 7: The Threat of Armed Conflict to the World  (P205-P240) |  International News Report 2: G1, G2  
May 6 |  _World Politics: Trend & Transformation_ Chapter 7: The Threat of Armed Conflict to the World  (P205-P240) |  International News Report 2: G3, G4  
May 13 |  _World Politics: Trend & Transformation_ Chapter 3: Theories of International Decision Making  (P58-P87) |  International News Report 2: G5, G6  
May 20 |  _World Politics: Trend & Transformation_ Chapter 3: Theories of International Decision Making  (P58-P87) |  International News Report 2: G7, G8  
May 27 |  _World Politics: Trend & Transformation_ Chapter 5: World Politics and the Global South  (P125-P156) |  International News  Report 2: G9, G10  
June 3 |  _Final Exam_ |   
June 10 |  Supplemental Class: |  Preparing Individual Project 2  
June 17 |  Supplemental Class: |  *Individual Project 2 due on 10:00 pm of June 17, 2025 (%)  
####  其他： Others: 獨立研究與資料蒐整 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.