國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：大學英文（二） 
#####  Course Name: College English II
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：032002721 Course No.032002721
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center 
  * 授課老師：蘇靖棻 Instructor: SU JING-FEN 
  * 先修科目：[ 大學英文（一）(單學期)(有修即可)]Prerequisite([])
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
College English I/II is a two-semester course, designed to help students improve their English language proficiency and develop the ability to engage critically with the world. While it is a four-skills (listening, speaking, reading, writing) integrated course, a particular emphasis will be placed on speaking and writing skills freshman students tend to lack most. All College English I/II courses are conducted in English.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the course, students will have improved their English language fluency and achieved a familiarity with a selection of issues related to cross-cultural communication. This is accomplished by providing a variety of authentic media and specific instruction on reading and listening strategies.
_Learning outcomes for speaking_
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  *     * Conduct a short interview
    * Analyze, question, or comment on listening content 
    * Give an oral report or a speech 
    * Give a formal oral presentation 
    * Explain and support an argument 
_Learning outcomes for writing_
By the end of the course, students will be able to do the following in written form:
  *     * Analyze and comment on listening content 
    * Analyze and comment on reading content 
    * Express opinions regarding local and global issues 
    * Prepare a statement of purpose for student exchange program, scholarship or internship
_Learning outcomes related to intercultural awareness_
By the end of the course, students will have improved their ability to:
  *     * Analyze cultural differences using the cross-cultural theory taught
    * Identify potential misunderstandings or conflicts in cross-cultural situations
    * Explain and critique the impact of globalization
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |   
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course overview |  § Introduction to Moodle, Cross-Cultural Communication (CCC), and Zuvio §  _Keynote 4_ Unit 7 Medical Frontiers A-B (pp. 89-93) |  § Exercises in Unit 7 § Homework: preview Unit 7C “Just press ‘print’” (pp. 94-95) and post one discussion question based on the reading on Moodle |   
2 |  Medical Frontiers |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 7 Medical Frontiers C-E (pp. 94-100) |  § Exercises in Unit 7 § TOEFL iBT Speaking Practice I: Task 1 [Argue for or against an issue] § Homework: preview Unit 8 A-C; post one discussion question based on 8C “The defining decade” on Moodle |   
3 |  Life Decisions |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 8 Life Decisions A-C (pp. 101-108) |  § Exercises in Unit 8 § Homework: choose to answer one question on 8C designed by your classmates on Moodle |   
4 |  Life Decisions |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 8 Life Decisions D-E (pp. 109-112) |  § Exercises in Unit 8 § Homework: # 1st written assignment—Write an advice column |   
5 |  Technology and Innovation |  §  _Keynote 4_ Unit 9 Technology and Innovation A-C (pp. 113-120) |  § Exercises in Unit 9 § TOEFL iBT Speaking Practice II: Task 2 [Comment on listening materials] § Homework: preview Unit 9 D-E |   
6 |  Technology and Innovation; Statement of purpose |  § _Keynote 4_ Unit 9 Technology and Innovation D-E (pp. 121-124) § Lecture on writing a statement of purpose for student exchange program |  § Exercises in Unit 9 § Homework: # 2ndwritten assignment—Write a statement of purpose; brainstorm and post your topic for individual oral presentation on Moodle” |   
7 |  Connections |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 10 Connections A-B (pp. 127-131) |  § TOEFL iBT Speaking Practice III: Task 3 [Comment on listening and reading materials] § Homework: choose to answer one question on 9C designed by your classmates on Moodle; write and submit your draft of individual oral presentation to Moodle |   
8 |  Connections |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 10 Connections C-E (pp. 132-138) |  § Exercises in Unit 10 § Homework: post one discussion question on 9C on Moodle |   
9 |  Life in the Slow Lane |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 11 Life in the Slow Lane A-C (pp. 139-146) |  § Exercises in Unit 11 § TOEFL iBT Speaking Practice IV: Task 4 [Comment on listening and reading materials] § Homework: submit your PPT of individual oral presentation to Moodle |   
10 |  Life in the Slow Lane |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 11 Life in the Slow Lane D-E (pp. 147-150) |  § Exercises in Unit 11 § Homework: submit your revised PPT of individual oral presentation to Moodle; rehearse individual oral presentation |   
11 |  Presentations |  Individual Oral Presentations I |  § Peer evaluation and feedback |   
12 |  Presentations |  Individual Oral Presentations II |  § Peer evaluation and feedback § Homework: preview Unit 11 A-C; post one discussion question based on 11C “Your brain on nature” on Moodle |   
13 |  _University Anniversary_ |  No Class |  |   
14 |  Make Yourself Heard |  §  _Keynote 4_ Unit 12 Make Yourself Heard A-B (pp. 151-155) |  § Homework: preview Unit 12 A-B; post one discussion question based on 12C “Whistleblowers” on Moodle |   
15 |  Make Yourself Heard |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 12 Make Yourself Heard C-E (pp. 156-162) |  § Exercises in Unit 12 § Homework: prepare for final exam |   
16 |  Final Exam |  Final Exam |  |   
17 |  Cross-cultural Communication |  § CCC Unit 4 PC Language & 5 Nonverbal Communication |  Watch CCC Unit 4 & 5 videos and complete checkpoint quizzes; for each unit, post at least one response on Moodle discussion board |   
18 |  Cross-cultural Communication |  § CCC Unit 6 Globalization |  Watch CCC Unit 6 videos and complete the checkpoint quiz #3rd written assignment—Explain and critique the impact of globalization |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.