國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：文明發展與歷史思惟
#####  Course Name: Development of Civilizations and Historical Thinking
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：041099041 Course No.041099041
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：歷史系 Course Department:History 
  * 授課老師：雷恩‧侯洛伊德 Instructor: Ryan Holroyd Edgecombe 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四78E Session: thu16-19
##  課程簡介Course Description
This is a historiography and historical theory course that explores the development of history and historical time, particularly in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. The most important concepts that the course will examine are historical cycles, historical progress, and the possibility of an 'End of History.' It will introduce students to several major philosophical schools of thought that have affected how we understand History, and through it how we understand our relationship with both the past and the future.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The course aims to introduce the idea of history as a malleable process that represents past events but is not synonymous with them. To this end, the course will attempt to demonstrate how different thinkers working in different historical and philosophical traditions have approached the task of representing the past and its relationship to the future. The course will also introduce the stakes of historical theory by showing how the dominance of various interpretations of historical time have impacted societies in larger ways. 
The course will combine a single large section in which I will introduce key concepts, figures, and processes using lectures and a various other media with smaller discussion sections led by teaching assistants. In preparation for each class, you will independently read samples of historical or theoretical writing related to the week’s topics in digital documents available through Moodle. Once every two weeks, you will answer two or three response questions related to the readings. These readings and response questions will form the basis for the teaching assistant-led discussion sections.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
_Tentative Course Schedule_ (note that this schedule is not set in stone; inspiration could strike at any time) 
2/20: Introduction
2/27: Daniel, Paul, St. Augustine, & the City of God
3/6: Marquis de Condorcet & the Progress of the Human Mind
3/13: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel & the World Spirit
3/20: Karl Marx & Capital
3/27: Friedrich Nietzsche & Morality
4/3: HOLIDAY
4/10: Oswald Spengler & the Decline of the West
4/17: Midterm
4/24: Julian Huxley & Eugenics
5/1: Walter Benjamin & the Angel of History
5/8: Hannah Arendt & Totalitarianism
5/15: Herbert Marcuse & One-Dimensional Man
5/22: Francis Fukuyama & the End of History
5/29: Ray Kurzweil & the Singularity
6/5: Final Examination
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.