國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：中國大陸概論
#####  Course Name: Introduction to Mainland China
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：042156051 Course No.042156051
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國發所 Course Department:Graduate Institute of Development Studies 
  * 授課老師：郭益昌 Instructor: KUO I-CHANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四78E Session: thu16-19
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course aims to provide students with foundational knowledge about contemporary China. Following the introduction to the making of contemporary China, this course is further divided into five sub-topics: political structure and governance, economic transformation, environment, social and cultural changes, and China and the world. Upon completing this course, students will have a fundamental comprehension of China's political, social, cultural, and economic conditions. Furthermore, students will comprehend the parallels and variations between developments in China and other nations and their evolving interactions.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
1. Develop students' thinking and research skills on topics relating to contemporary China.
2. Instruct students on the foundational knowledge required for future academic pursuits or employment searches.
3. Develop and enhance proficiency in skills in essay writing and oral communication.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week 1. Course introduction 
Week 2. The making of contemporary China - 1 
  1. Kerry Brown (2019) What is China? _Contemporary China,_ Bloomsbury Publishing.
  2. Prasenjit Duara (2018) Nationalism and the nation-state, _The SAGE handbook of contemporary China_ , California: SAGE.
Week 3. The making of contemporary China - 2 
  1. Kerry Brown (2019) The Making of Modern China, _Contemporary China,_ Bloomsbury Publishing.
  2. Dali Yang (2018) The making of the modern state and quest for modernity, _The SAGE handbook of contemporary China_ , California: SAGE.
Week 4. Political structure and governance - 1
  1. Filip Šebok (2024) China's political system: How does the Communist Party rule China?  _Contemporary China: A New Superpower?_ Kristina Kironska and Richard Q. Turcsanyi (eds.) Routledge.
  2. Kerry Brown (2018) The communist party and ideology, _The SAGE handbook of contemporary China_ , California: SAGE.
Week 5. Political structure and governance - 2
  1. Matej Šimalčík (2024) Rule by law: Is there justice in China? _Contemporary China: A New Superpower?_ Kristina Kironska and Richard Q. Turcsanyi (eds.) Routledge.
  2. John James Kennedy and Dan Chen (2018) Local and grassroots governance, _The SAGE handbook of contemporary China_ , California: SAGE.
Week 6. Economic transformation - 1
  1. Martin Šebeňa (2024) Chinese economic miracle: How did an underdeveloped country change into a world leader? _Contemporary China: A New Superpower?_ Kristina Kironska and Richard Q. Turcsanyi (eds.) Routledge.
  2. Gary H. Jefferson (2018) State-owned enterprise: reform, performance and prospects, _The SAGE handbook of contemporary China_ , California: SAGE.
Week 7. Ancestors' Day - No class
Week 8. Economic transformation - 2 
  1. Martin Šebeňa (2024) Technological power: Can China innovate?  _Contemporary China: A New Superpower?_ Kristina Kironska and Richard Q. Turcsanyi (eds.) Routledge.
  2. Huimin Du and Wenfei Winnie Wang (2018) The making of the ‘migrant class’, _The SAGE handbook of contemporary China_ , California: SAGE.
Week 9. Documentary screening
Watching _We, The Workers (2019),_ directed by
Week 10. Environment
  1. Klára Dubravčíková (2024) Environment: Does China care about it?  _Contemporary China: A New Superpower?_ Kristina Kironska and Richard Q. Turcsanyi (eds.) Routledge.
  2. Jo Inge Bekkevold (2018) Sustaining growth: energy and natural resources, _The SAGE handbook of contemporary China_ , California: SAGE.
Week 11. Social and cultural changes - 1 (religion)
  1. Klára Dubravčíková (2024) Religion, traditions, and values: What do the Chinese believe in?  _Contemporary China: A New Superpower?_ Kristina Kironska and Richard Q. Turcsanyi (eds.) Routledge.
  2. Andre Laliberte (2018) Religion, _The SAGE handbook of contemporary China_ , California: SAGE.
Week 12. Social and cultural changes - 2 (urbanisation)
  1. Klára Dubravčíková (2024) Living standards and social issues: What is it like to live in China?  _Contemporary China: A New Superpower?_ Kristina Kironska and Richard Q. Turcsanyi (eds.) Routledge.
  2. Jia Feng and Guo Chen (2018) Socio-spatial transformation of cities, _The SAGE handbook of contemporary China_ , California: SAGE.
Week 13. Social and cultural changes - 3 (gender)
  1. Leta Hong Fincher (2023) _Leftover Women : The Resurgence of Gender Inequality in China_ , Chapter 1: 1. China’s “leftover” women, Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
  2. Pamela Hunt (2022) _Rebel Men: Masculinity and Attitude in Postsocialist Chinese Literature_ , Chapter 4: Floating Men: Xu Zechen’s Migrants, Hong Kong University Press.
Week 14. China and the world – 1
  1. Matej Šimalčík (2024) China in the world: A New Silk Road to world dominance?  _Contemporary China: A New Superpower?_ Kristina Kironska and Richard Q. Turcsanyi (eds.) Routledge.
  2. Ching Kwan Lee (2022) Global China at 20: Why, How and So What?  _The China Quarterly_ 250:313-331 
  3. Video watching: What is Global China? Delivered by Professor Ching Kwan Lee https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wvMlH0wLaMs
Week 15. China and the world – 2
  1. Alfred Gerstl (2024) China in its immediate neighborhood: A benevolent power or a hegemon?  _Contemporary China: A New Superpower?_ Kristina Kironska and Richard Q. Turcsanyi (eds.) Routledge.
  2. Ching Kwan Lee (2018) Varieties of Capital, Fracture of Labor: A Comparative Ethnography of Subcontracting and Labor Precarity on the Zambian Copperbelt, Industrial labor on the margins of capitalism, Chris Hann and Jonathan Parry (eds.), Berghahn Books. 
  3. Documentary screening: American Factory (2019), directed by Steven Bognar and Julia Reichert
Week 16. China and the world – 3
  1. Joshua Eisenman and Eric Heginbotham (2024) China's relations with the Global South: On the rise or past their peak?_Contemporary China: A New Superpower?_ Kristina Kironska and Richard Q. Turcsanyi (eds.) Routledge.
  2. Derek Sheridan (2022) “We are now the same”: Chinese Wholesalers and the Politics of Trade Hierarchies in Tanzania, The _China Quarterly_ , 250, 376-396.
Week 17. Completing the one-pager - no class
Week 18. Presenting and submitting the one-pager
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.