國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：科技地緣政治時代的科技法政策、外交與國家安全
#####  Course Name: Law and Policy on Technology, Diplomacy, and National Security under the Geo-Technology Era
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：042216001 Course No.042216001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學院 Course Department:International College of Innovation 
  * 授課老師：杜文苓、張智程 Instructor: TU WEN-LING/Chang Chih Cheng 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四78E Session: thu16-19
##  課程簡介Course Description
Technical innovation has the potential to reshape the economic and military landscape. As techno-geopolitical tensions rise, particularly in the context of the US-China technology competition, many countries have implemented new national-level regulations regarding technology transfer. These changes will not only impact the current global economy but also alter the technological supply chain and the global order. Therefore, this course aims to provide students with an introduction to technology law and policies, including four issues: export controls, foreign investment, information security, and government-funded research.
*For those seeking to add the course, please attend the first class on February 20. Please do NOT email the professor or TA regarding this matter.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  1. Summarize current technology Legal and policy issues in the era of geo-technology.
  2. Formulate, analyze, and evaluate technology Law and policy reform options.
  3. Conceive, design, and execute a technology and policy research project.
  4. Describe how regulation & policy is done in the "real word" by its practitioners.
  5. Write effectively for policy situations, both in short fact sheets and longer reports.
  6. Speak effectively for law & policy making situations, both in informal dialogue and formal presentations.
  7. Work effectively in teams.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
週次 |  課程主題 |  課程內容與指定閱讀 |  教學活動與作業  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course Introduction |  Lecture & discussion  
2 |  The Changing Global Order, Technology and Global Supply Chain (I) |  Lecture & discussion  
3 |  The Changing Global Order, Technology and Global Supply Chain (II) |  Lecture & discussion  
4 |  _Invited Lecture: Dr. Mathieu Gilles Duchatel_ Dr. Duchatel is the Director of the Asia Program at the Institut Montaigne. In this lecture, Dr. Duchatel will discuss economic security policy-making within the framework of cooperation between the EU and Asia. |  Invited lecture  
5 |  National Security and Export Control on Regulating Emerging and Fundamental Technologies (I) |  Lecture & discussion  
6 |  National Security and Export Control on Regulating Emerging and Fundamental Technologies (II) |  Lecture & discussion  
7 |  Children’s Festival (No Class) |  Individual assignment  
8 |  Foreign Investment & National Security Regulation (I)  |  Lecture & discussion  
9 |  _Invited Lecture: Prof. Mi-Yong Kim_ Prof. Kim has approximately 30 years of experience in U.S. export controls and national security legislation, having served in various senior-level positions within the Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) at the U.S. Department of Commerce. In this lecture, Prof. Kim will share her insights on current export control policies. |  Invited lecture  
10 |  Foreign Investment & National Security Regulation (II) |  Lecture & discussion  
11 |  Protecting Governmental Data and Information Security  |  Lecture & discussion  
12 |  Protecting Private Data, Information Security and Trade Secrets |  Lecture & discussion  
13 |  Protecting Government Funded Fundamental (Science and Technology Basic and Applied) Research |  Lecture & discussion  
14 |  War Game: How Companies Deal with Geopolitical Risk |  Group project  
15 |  War Game: How Companies Deal with Geopolitical Risk |  Group project  
16 |  Wrap-up of the Course |  In-class activity  
17 |  Self-Learning Week (No Class)  
18 |  Self-Learning Week (No Class)  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.