國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：故事如何塑造法律
#####  Course Name: Storytelling and the Law
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：044119001 Course No.044119001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學院 Course Department:International College of Innovation 
  * 授課老師：郭怡慧 Instructor: Kuo Michelle 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二78E Session: tue16-19
##  課程簡介Course Description
Stories fill the law; the law is made up of stories. Competing stories often come to determine a person’s legal fate. The fact that story-telling—often untrue ones—is so deeply intertwined with verdicts is a deeply uncomfortable part of the law. In this course, we seek to examine this relationship, between story-telling and justice, between law and literature. We examine the role of stories in classics such as Kafka’s _The Trial,_ and compare narratives of migration in asylum, prose, and poetry. We examine popular narratives of crime through the lens of social theory—as well as under-studied and invisible areas of punishment, such as child custody. We think together about how to create new stories about animals and the environment. At the end of the semester students choose their own topics, working collaboratively in three-person teams to tell stories that push against law’s dominion.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is designed so that students will improve at the following skills, all of which can only be developed with repeated practice and feedback:
  * Analysis. Students will learn to evaluate diverse arguments, facts and opinions, and to build and defend their own arguments. 
  * Research. Students will learn how to find, evaluate and organize different sources of information. Students will learn how to find and use sources, as will do primary source analysis in class.
  * Communication. Mock trials and role-playing will encourage playful and creative approaches to oral communication, helping students developing confidence and joy in the process. 
  * Storytelling. Students will present a final project in which they tell new stories about a topic of their choice, applying concepts explored in class. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 8 週 Week 8 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 12 週 Week 12 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and Homework  
---|---|---|---  
1,  February 18th |  Introduction to the course |  In-class: Violaine Schwartz (tr. Christine Gutman), _Papers_(on people seeking asylum in France) | 
  1. Distinguish primary sources from secondary sources
  2. Prepare students for homework assignment: write your own prose-poem of migration, drawing from primary sources 
2,  February 25th |  Migration and Asylum  |  In-class -introduction to nuts and bolts of asylum law;  -discuss Violaine Schwartz (tr. Christine Gutman), _Papers_(on people seeking asylum in France) |  Discuss first assignment: rough draft of prose-poem on migration due Week 4 (March 10th)   
3, March 4th |  Migration and Asylum  |  -Asylum law case -continue reading Violaine Schwartz (tr. Christine Gutman), _Papers_(on people seeking asylum in France) |  Read together in class; begin brainstorming your own prose-poems in imitation of the pieces in _Papers_  
4, March 11th |  Anticolonialism  |  Peer review of prose-poem on migration and asylum  Frantz Fanon, _Wretched of the Earth_ |  Rough draft of prose-poem on migration and asylum due  
5, March 18th |  Anticolonialism  |  Gandhi, _Hind Swaraj_ |   
6, March 25th |  Midterm Presentation  |  In-class: Prepare for mock asylum trials  |  Mock asylum trials in class   
7, April 1  |  Midterm Presentation  |  Mock asylum trials in class  |  Mock asylum trials in class   
8, April 8th |  No class  |  |  No class; finish final draft of _Papers,_ with explanation of revision   
9, April 15th |  Crime and Punishment |  Sharing of Prose-Poems  Introduction to Crime and Punishment Unit   
|  Final draft of prose-poem due   
10, April 22nd |  Crime and Punishment  |  Foucault, _Discipline and Punish_ |  Discussion of Crime, Power, and Subjectivity  Thinking about Foucault in daily life: in-class exercise with parole and crime   
11, April 29th |  Crime and Punishment  |  Larissa Macfarquhar, “When Should a Child Be Taken From His Parents?” |  Thinking about Foucault in daily life: in-class exercise with child custody cases   
12, May 6th |  Restorative & Transformative Justice  |  Paul Tullis, “Can Forgiveness Play a Role in Criminal Justice?”  |  Flexible Week; no class   
13, May 13th |  Animal Rights  |  Coetzee, _Elizabeth Costello_ Final Project: Students begin brainstorming final project topics  |  How can we write from the perspectives of nonhuman animals? Is it possible?   
14, May 20th |  Environmental Rights |  Trees, Rivers, Oceans: Can They Be Legal Persons? |  No class; NCCU university anniversary   
15, May 27th |  Work with three-person groups to do final projects  |  No class  |  Students meet with three-person groups to do final projects on a topic related to storytelling and the law   
16, June 3rd |  Law and Literature |  Kafka, _The Trial_ |  Creative interpretations of Kafka  
17, June 10th |  Final Project |  Independent research on self-selected topic |  Students have time to work on final projects   
18, June 17th |  Final Project  |  Independent research on self-selected topic |  Students present final projects   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.