國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：氣候變遷對社會韌性的挑戰
#####  Course Name: Climate Resilience in Motion
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：044120001 Course No.044120001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學院 Course Department:International College of Innovation 
  * 授課老師：呂采穎、杜文苓 Instructor: Lu Tsai Ying/TU WEN-LING 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五78 Session: fri16-18
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course will integrate social and natural science perspectives on the interpretation of climate change impacts and risks, and will progressively guide students towards an interdisciplinary understanding of the topic through a weekly theme.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Facing climate change's cross-cutting and transboundary impacts, several countries have adopted net-zero targets and corresponding mitigation actions to cope with the situation. Yet, how to go further in terms of “adaptive” capacities and actions so that social systems and infrastructures can be equipped with absorptive, adaptive, and transformative capacities is the primary concern of this course. By inviting relevant experts to discuss the topic, students will be able to gain a cross-disciplinary and multi-faceted understanding of climate resilience and consider the possibility of practical action through group discussions and reports.  
Through lectures and in-class discussions, students will learn the different aspects of climate adaptation strategies and be able to conduct a preliminary policy assessment.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 8 週 Week 8 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
Week |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and Homework  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Kick-off week: course overview |  Marwah, R., & Singh, S. (Eds.). (2023). Politics of climate change: Crises, conventions and cooperation. World Scientific. |   
2 | Peace Memorial Day |  |   
3 |  Energy Resilience |  Aldieri, L., Gatto, A., & Vinci, C. P. (2021). Evaluation of energy resilience and adaptation policies: An energy efficiency analysis. Energy Policy, 157, 112505. |   
4 |  Water Resilience |  Falkenmark, M., Wang-Erlandsson, L., & Rockström, J. (2019). Understanding of water resilience in the Anthropocene. Journal of Hydrology X, 2, 100009. |   
5 |  Economic Resilience |  Lai, H. L., & Devine‐Wright, P. (2024). Imagining and emplacing net zero industrial clusters: A critical analysis of stakeholder discourses. Geo: Geography and Environment, 11(1), e00139. |   
6 |  Social Resilience |  Rivera González, Joyce, and Michelle Hak Hepburn. 2022. "What Resilience Does." AnthroPod, Fieldsights, February 17. https://culanth.org/fieldsights/what-resilience-does |   
7 |  Tomb-sweeping Day／Ching Ming Festival |  |   
8 |  Self-learning, no class |  Listen to a global mosaic of climate adaptation solutions (Listen to a global mosaic of climate adaptation solutions (unep.org)) |  A one-page short memo: Choose a case study and find an example related to the category  
9 | Climate disinformation | Online talk |  Proposal sent by the end of the day.  
10 |  How to write a policy brief? |  Beynon, P., Chapoy, C., Gaarder, M., & Masset, E. (2012). What difference does a policy brief make.  _Full report of an IDS, 3ie, Norad study: Institute of Development Studies and the International Initiative for Impact Evaluation (3ie)_. KOBZAR, Svitlana,  _Transforming research into an engaging policy story : how to write a policy brief_ , Migration Policy Centre, CARIM-East, Explanatory Notes, 2013/19 - https://hdl.handle.net/1814/62781 |   
11 | Climate Diplomacy and Global Leadership | Mabey, N., Gallagher, L., & Born, C. (2013). The evolution of climate diplomacy and the international climate regime.  _Understanding Climate Diplomacy: Building diplomatic capacity and systems to avoid dangerous climate change_ , 21-34. |   
12 |  Climate Actions and Lobbying |  （Climate Home News）No Carbon Budget left for Incremental Progress in Taiwan’s Climate Policy – TCAN 台灣氣候行動網絡 |   
13 |  Climate Journalism |  Schäfer, M. S., & Painter, J. (2021). Climate journalism in a changing media ecosystem: Assessing the production of climate change‐related news around the world. Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Climate Change, 12(1), e675. |   
14 | Climate Disaster Prevention | Rathore, V. (2016). Technology in disaster management and disaster risk reduction: A review of applications. Technology, 6(4). |  [Board game]  
15 |  The bridge holiday of the Dragon Boat Festival |  |   
16 |  Group presentation week-I |  |   
17 |  Group presentation week-II |  |   
18 | Self-learning, no class |  |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.