國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：商用英文：口語溝通與談判技巧
#####  Course Name: Business English: Communication Skills & Negotiation Strategies
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：070163021 Course No.070163021
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：商學院 Course Department:Commerce 
  * 授課老師：胡家榮 Instructor: CLARENCE DAVIS 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
With the globalization of the world, English has become a lingua franca in almost every discipline. Having a good command of communication skills in English increases one’s competitive edges and ensures his/her first-step success in career development. However, it has been found that students in Taiwan usually lack the ability to apply English to their workplaces, such as negotiating with a foreign counterpart or leading an important meeting with colleagues present from around the world. Therefore, helping the students become more fluent at expressing themselves in a business English setting and proficient at coping with various job problems serves as the main purpose of the training. 
In this course, carefully constructed activities with updated material for crucial business topics will be presented to engage the students in authentic and meaningful tasks to further sharpen their overall language proficiency. There will be lots of opportunities for peer interactions and group presentations. It is hoped that the students will successfully develop their communicative competence through this means. The students are expected to participate in pair/group work with great enthusiasm and do extensive speaking practices both in and after class.
Pronunciation, grammar, and vocabulary related to the goal of successful communication will also be introduced and practiced.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the semester, the students will be able to: 
  1. apply general and professional business English expressions,
  2. present their points of view in oral English easily,
  3. demonstrate their speaking skills in front of the public confidently and fearlessly, 
  4. solve various communication problems often seen at work. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
_Tentative Syllabus_
Weeks |  Dates |  Teaching Contents |  Remarks  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  02/19 |  Course Orientation; Introduction to Speaking Skills |   
2 |  02/26 |  Unit 2: Make a Strong Start |   
3 |  03/05 |  Unit 3: Build the Team |   
4 |  03/12 |  Unit 4: Ask Questions |   
5 |  03/19 |  Unit 5: Present Facts and Figures |   
6 |  03/26 |  Business Trip |  No Class  
7 |  04/02 |  NCCU School Activities |  No Class  
8 |  04/09 |  Unit 7: Bid and Bargain |   
9 |  04/16 |  Unit 8: Chair a Meeting |  Video Due  
10 |  04/23 |  Unit 9: Emphasize Your Point |   
11 |  04/30 |  Unit 10: Manage a Crisis |  Phone Test  
12 |  05/07 |  Unit 11: Adapt to Your Audience |   
13 |  05/14 |  Unit 13: Get to Yes |   
14 |  05/21 |  NCCU Sports Day |  No Class  
15 |  05/28 |  Unit 14: Sell Your Idea |  Preparation  
16 |  06/04 |  Final Exam: International Mock Conference |   
17 |  06/11 |  Self Online Study |   
18 |  06/18 |  At-home Writing Project |  Semester Review Due  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.