國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：區域整合與歐亞關係
#####  Course Name: Regional Integration and EU-Asia Relations
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：070251001 Course No.070251001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國務院 Course Department:International Affairs 
  * 授課老師：蘇卓馨 Instructor: SU CHO-HSIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12 
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course aims to educate students to seize the particular dynamics and political issues within Europe and East Asia, and also, the interregional relations and their relations with other parts of the world. While Europe has undergone significant political transformation since the second World War, its singular course of integration amidst crises and collective community building provides rich subjects for political studies. East Asia, on the other hand, displays another model of regional integration that indicates regionalism/regionalization development in different pace. From the beginning of this century, the interregional relations have witnessed a new climax and generated new economic and political dynamics. We will invite guest speakers from both academia and practice field, and organize field trips to visit delegations from Europe and East Asia in Taiwan, to give students firsthand understanding of the regional and interregional relations. By the end of the semester, the students are expected to understand the major players in Europe and East Asia and the unique governance model of the European Union (EU). Throughout the course, students are expected to participate in gathering information and discussing with class with formed arguments. And on the final weeks, each student will select a dimension for comparative study between Europe and East Asia and present it to the class. The presentation should compose of an analytical framework and should also offer a viewpoint of the chosen topic.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course aims to educate students to understand regional integration development in Europe and East Asia, anticipate probable developments in the regions, and think critically about the potential long-term impact of those developments on institutions, countries, and individuals across the globe. By the end of the semester, the students are expected to develop the intellectual skills to effectively analyze key events and issues happening in both regions and the interregional relations.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Week |  Class |  Reading list  
---|---|---  
2/18 |  Class introduction  |   
2/25 |  Regional integration in theory |  Keukeleire, S. and Delreux, T. (2022) _The Foreign Policy of the European Union_ , 3rd edition, Palgrave Macmilla; Dent, C. (2016)._East Asian Regionalism_. 2nd ed. Routledge.  
3/4 |  Regional integration _à l'européenne:_ The nature and the policy-making system of the EU foreign policy |  Coman, Ramona _et al_. eds. 2020. _Governance and Politics in the Post-crisis European Union_. Cambridge University Press; Keukeleire, S. and Delreux, T. (2022) _The Foreign Policy of the European Union_ , 3rd edition, Palgrave Macmillan; Defraigne, J.-C. et al. (eds). (2022). _EU Industrial Policy in the Multipolar Economy_. Edward Elgar Publishing.  
3/11 |  EU normative power and the Brussels effect |  Björkdahl, A. et al. (ed.) (2015). _Importing EU Norms: Conceptual Framework and Empirical Findings._ Switzerland: Springer; Bradford, A. (2020). _The Brussels Effect. How the European Union Rules the World_. Oxford University Press.  
3/18 |  Introduction to EU-Taiwan Relations Field trip: European Economic and Trade Office (EETO) in Taipei Hosted by Mr. Lutz Güllner Head of the EETO |   
3/25 |  Basic freedoms of the single market Guest Lecture: Dr. Michal Tomášek Deputy Dean and Director of the Department of European Law Charles University |   
4/1 |  EU-China relations: consequences for Europe's engagement in Asia Guest lecture: Dr. Mathieu Duchâtel Institut Montaigne |  Brennan, L. and P. Murray (2015). _Drivers of Integration and Regionalism in Europe and Asia: Comparative Perspectives_. Routledge.  
4/8 |  Discovering East Asia Regionalism and Regionalization in East Asia |  Kenderdine, T. (2018). “Death of the East Asian Goose and the Rise of China’s Geoindustrial Policy”. In _Journal of Chinese Political Science_ , 23: 437-453; Harvie, C., D. Narjoko and S. Oum (2015). _Economic Integration in East Asia: Production Networks and Small and Medium Enterprises_. Routledge.  
4/15 |  Midterm evaluation |   
4/22 |  Taiwan-ASEAN relations Field trip: Chung-Hua Institution of Economic Research Hosted by Ms. Kristy Hsu Director of the Taiwan ASEAN Studies Center at Chung-Hua Institution of Economic Research |   
4/29 |  Interregionalism and EU-Asia relations |  García, I. J. M. (2017). “Interregionalism in Transnational Interest Networks: Euro-Asian Civil Society and the EU-ASEAN Free Trade Agreement”. In _Globalizations_ , 14 (4): 563-577.  
5/6 |  EU-Asia relations Guest lecture: Professor Zsuzsa Anna Ferenczy Vrije Universiteit Brussel |   
5/13 |  Europe-Africa partnership Guest lecture: Mr. Frank Paris Director of the French Office in Taipei |   
5/20 |  Day off (University Anniversary) |   
5/27 |  Final presentation and debate on chosen topic |   
6/3 |  Final presentation and debate on chosen topic |   
6/10 |  Extensive readings |   
6/17 |  Extensive readings |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.