國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：雙語影音媒體溝通
#####  Course Name: Bilingual Media Communication
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：070404001 Course No.070404001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文系 Course Department:English 
  * 授課老師：吳承翰 Instructor: WU CHENG-HAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
In an age bombarded with notifications and overwhelmed by (mis)information, media not only fragments our focus but fundamentally reshapes the way we access and acquire knowledge today. Building on the media literacy foundation, this course looks into the mechanism of media outlets, exploring an essential question: _How does media transform our daily interactions, and what do we sacrifice for its convenience and allure?_ From the printed word to digital platforms, the dissemination of message to the public has undergone a sea change. Television, films, smartphones, and live-streaming services offer lavish entertainment and immediate connection but often at the expense of enduring attention. This course invites students to critically engage with thought-provoking readings, initiating a critical dialogue with authors and peers. Through the discussion, students will not only refine their analytical skills but also confront the challenge of expanding their attention span in an age of distraction.
N.B. Please note that while the course primarily centers around British and American media culture, students are encouraged to incorporate local examples and interdisciplinary perspectives to enrich the in-class conversation. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of this course, students will be able to 
  1. Analyze media content, with a focus on identifying techniques of media manipulation.
  2. Gain a deeper understanding of the influence of the media in today’s society.
  3. Enhance language proficiency (both English and Chinese) through activities, including translation and adaptation for the general public.
  4. Understand the socio-cultural, political, and economic factors shaping media production and consumption. 
  5. Acquire advanced media literacy skills to spot bias, misinformation, and propaganda in different media outlets.
  6. Reflect on their own roles as active participants in the media, contributing to more ethical and responsible media practices.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 8 週 Week 8 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Course Schedule
Week |  Date |  Topic |  Required Reading  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Feb 19 |  Introduction |   
2 |  26 |  Gender and Media (I) —Advertisement Industry |  Kilbourne, _Deadly Persuasion_  
3 |  March 5 |  Gender and Media (II)—Paintings as Examples |  Berger, _Ways of Seeing_  
4 |  12 |  Media, Stardom, and the Faustian Pact |  McCurdy, _I’m Glad My Mom Died_  
5 |  19 |  Media, Visual Entertainment, and the Showmanship  |  Postman,_Amusing Ourselves to Death_  
6 |  26 |  Screening: _Raise the Red Lantern_ |   
7 |  April 2 |  Intercollegiate Activity |  No class  
8 |  9 |  Studying Week |  Self-Study  
9 |  16 |  _Midterm Exam_ |   
10 |  23 |  Media, Internet, and the Paradox of Knowledge |  Lynch, _The Internet of Us_  
11 |  30 |  Media and Adult Industry |  Dines, _Pornland_  
12 |  May 7 |  Materialism, the Pursuit of Happiness, and the Media’s Role  |  Kasser, _The High Price of Materialism_  
13 |  14 |  Media Narratives, (Mis)conceptions of the Humanities, and Higher Education  |  Deresiewicz, _Excellent Sheep_  
14 |  21 |  Media and Political Discourses  |  Obama, _Becoming_  
15 |  28 |  People or Pixels? Reclaiming Humanity  |  Turkle, _Reclaiming Conversation_  
16 |  June 4 |  Individual Supervision with the Instructor  |   
17 |  11 |  _Final Presentation_ |   
18 |  18 |  End of Semester |  No class  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.