國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：雙語與科技應用
#####  Course Name: Bilingualism and Technological Applications
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：070405001 Course No.070405001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文系 Course Department:English 
  * 授課老師：楊健威 Instructor: YANG CHIEN-WEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
Course Description:
This course tries to answer an overarching question: does technology really lead to progress, as scientists and innovators have promised, or does it enslave human beings and exacerbate inequality? In this course, we will first consider the impacts on education, work practices, and legal concepts brought by technology. This course will equip you with essential reading and writing skills to integrate sources of information and express your thoughts in oral and written forms. With an open mind, we will also explore the possibility of using AI to enhance language learning. Then, we will begin in-depth discussions of a collection of short stories by Issac Asimov, a film by Steven Spielberg, and a novel by Philip K. Dick, in which we have the opportunity to reflect on our use of technology and the social transformation engendered by androids. Following modules 2 and 3, you will learn to write a research paper to present your answer to the question our course proposes. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Course Objectives:
This EMI course aims to explore how technology impacts human society and encourages you to reflect on your interactions with technology. You can expect to achieve the following upon completing the course:
1) to analyze literary text and critical essays
2) to learn to apply new technology in language learning
3) to gain essential academic writing skills
4) to cultivate critical thinking
5) to gain insight into the latest trends in technological developments
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
17+1週17+1 weeks | 第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Course Schedule:
*For this semester, we adopt the 16+2-week system. If needed, we will meet in week 17.
Abbreviations used:
PV: Preview
*The topics can undergo further changes
Session |  Topic/Chapter |  Assignment/Project |  Time Invest-ment Including class hours (in hours)  
---|---|---|---  
Module 1: Education & Industrial Revolution 4.0  
1 |  1. Course Intro. 2. The Forum: The Rise of Remote Learning |  PV Writing Handouts |  3  
2 |  1. The Essay Structure Revisited 2. Writing the Introductory Paragraph |  1. Writing Practice 1: The Introductory Paragraph 2. PV Readings |  4  
3 |  1. MOOCs: A Democratized Higher Education? 2. Writing Consultation |  1. PV Readings 2. Prepare Oral Summary |  4.5  
4 |  1. AI and Your Job Future 2. Crafting AI agency at Work |  1. PV Readings 2. Prepare Oral Summary |  4.5  
5 |  1. AI to Empower Learners? 2. The Case of Khanmigo 3. Outlining an Essay |  1. PV Readings 2. An Expository Essay Draft |  5  
Module 2: Can Humans and Robots Co-exist?  
6 |  1. Reading a Literary Text Part 1 2. “Robbie” & “Roundabout” by Issac Asimov & the 3 Robotic Laws |  1. Finish Analytical Questions |  4.5  
7 |  “Catch the Rabbit” by Asimov & Robotic Right |  1. Finish Analytical Questions 2. Prepare for the Debate |  4.5  
8 |  1. Debate: Conferring Personhood and Rights on Robots 2. Using AI-assisted Tools in Writing |  1. Practice with AI-assisted Tools in Writing |  3  
9 |  1. Film Screening 1/2: Differentiating a Humanoid from a Human 2. Forum: Defining Humanity |  1. Reflection Writing |  4  
10 |  1. Film Screening 2/2: Differentiating a Humanoid from a Human 2. Film Review 101 |  1. Make a film review |  4  
Module 3: Humans, Technology, and Dystopia  
11 |  1. Reading a Literary Text Part 2 2. Ch.s 1-4,_Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?_  |  1. Finish Analytical Questions on Settings & Characterization |  5  
12 |  Ch.s 5-11,_Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?_ |  1. Finish Analytical Questions on symbolism and motifs |  5  
13 |  Ch.s 12-18,_Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?_ |  1. Finish Analytical Questions on Literary Devices |  5  
14 |  Ch.s 19-22,_Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?_ |  1. Finish Analytical Questions on the Themes 2. Prepare Paper Proposal |  5.5  
Module 4: Reflecting on the Theme through Writing  
15 |  1. Research Paper: an Intro. 2. Making a claim |  1. Revise the Paper Proposal 2. Start the Paper Draft |  5  
16 |  1. Citing Sources 2. Writing Consultation |  1. Complete the Paper Draft |  5 or more  
17 |  Research Paper Presentation |  1. Give peer feedback in class |  5 or more  
18 |  Research Paper Revision *Consultation with the instructor can be arranged |  1. Revise and Turn in the Final Version of the Research Paper |  N/A  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.