國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：雙語溝通能力
#####  Course Name: Bilingual Communication Skills
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：070403001 Course No.070403001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文系 Course Department:English 
  * 授課老師：吳承翰 Instructor: WU CHENG-HAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
Effective communication requires practice, awareness of social events, and strong willingness to stay informed about everyday life. Building on the communication technique foundation, this course invites students to critically engage with everyday life, literary works, and popular social issues in both English and Chinese. Each week devotes to a specific theme from diverse disciplines, such as well-being, pop culture, parent-child relationship, and modern literature. By examining texts from both Western and Eastern writers, students are encouraged to identify shared ideas and explore how these perspectives differ. Be they verbal, written, or audiovisual, these works will not only enhance our ability to communicate effectively in a bilingual scenario, but also spark meaningful reflection on today’s social climate in Taiwan and beyond. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of this course, students will be able to 
  1. Analyze on the social and cultural implications of current events.
  2. Apply bilingual communication skills in both written and spoken forms. 
  3. Compare viewpoints from various resources in bilingual texts. 
  4. Cultivate a sense of appreciation for humanities.
  5. Refine arguments by using effective rhetorical devices.
  6. Synthesize diverse perspectives through critical thinking.
  7. Stay well-informed about current topics.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 8 週 Week 8 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Course Schedule
Week |  Date |  Topic |  Assigned Texts  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Feb 21 |  Introduction |   
2 |  28 |  National Holiday |  No class  
3 |  March 7 |  The English Language and National Identity  | 
  * David Crystal, _English as a Global Language_
  * Richard Rodriguez, _Hunger of Memory_
4 |  14 |  Loss, Memory, and Remembrance  | 
  * 琦君〈髻〉
  * Kitty Drake, “The disappearance of department stores”
5 |  21 |  The Perils and Promises of High Technology | 
  * Chris Miller, _Chip War_
  * Nicholas Carr, _The Shallows_
6 |  28 |  Self-worth, Life, and Professional Career  | 
  * David Graeber, _Bullshit Jobs_
  * Ram Madhvani, _Neerja_ (2016)
7 |  April 4 |  National Holiday |  No class  
8 |  11 |  Studying Week |  No class  
9 |  18 |  _Midterm Exam_ _In-class writing_ |   
10 |  25 |  Parent-Child Relationship, Parenting Style, and Family Value | 
  * 龍應台〈目送〉、〈一九六四〉
  * Amy Tan, “Mother Tongue”
11 |  May 2 |  Individual Ambition versus Collective Value | 
  * 廖玉蕙〈繁華散盡〉
  * Michael J. Sandel, _The Tyranny of Merit: What’s Become of the Common Good?_
12 |  9 |  Celebrity Culture, Mental Health, and the Media |  Britney Spears, _The Woman in Me_  
13 |  16 |  Self-Help, Well-Being, and Personal Growth |  Michelle Obama, _The Light We Carry_  
14 |  23 |  Guest Talk N.B. Details will be announced in class |   
15 |  30 |  National Holiday |  No Class  
16 |  June 6 |  Individual Supervision with the Instructor  |   
17 |  13 |  _Final Presentation_ |   
18 |  20 |  End of semester |  No class  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.