國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：電影與政治
#####  Course Name: Cinema and Politics
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：070942001 Course No.070942001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：社科院 Course Department:Social Sciences 
  * 授課老師：梁家瑜 Instructor: Liang Chia-Yu 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
‘Cinema and Politics’ is a one semester module for year 3 and 4 undergraduate and master program postgraduate students. It aims at (1) elucidating the relations and interactions between cinema and politics to students, (2) nurturing their abilities to reflect on politics through cinema, and (3) developing their abilities to express their interpretation of politics and film through images and arguments.
The module, therefore, is organised into three main themes: cinema, analysis, and politics, with a strong emphasis on the theory and history of cinema and politics. Apart from the first two weeks that introduces the theme of the module and its historical origins, the module unfolds with (1) the mapping of key film theories (week 3-8), before moving onto (2) the analytical tools necessary for students to analyse movies (week 9-11), so the students can (3) engage with specific political issues represented in or manifested through movies (week 12-14). To conclude the module, the last two week will include an open discussion on the future of the relations between cinema and politics (week 15), and a three-round debate (week 16).
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Through this module, students will be exposed to a wide range of films and theoretical texts. The range of films to be used in the module transcend the limitations of the selection of films in similar courses offered in Western universities. The texts selected are interdisciplinary, thus unbound by the scope of Film studies modules in Western universities as well. Students therefore are expected to liberate their established ways of thinking about the relations between cinema and politics. 
On the basis of this set of materials, students are expected to develop the ability to think critically and independently on cinema and politics. This will be assessed through their assignments. 
The design of the assignments, including the essay abstract (mid-term), class debate (week 16), and term paper (end of term), aims to help students to develop the ability to form coherent and succinct arguments, and present them in an articulate, well-informed, academic term paper. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
Week 1. Introduction: How Cinematic is Politics? How Political is Cinema? _Screen_ :  Wang Ping and Li Enjie, _The East Is Red_ (1965). _Reading_ (excerpt): Giorgio Agamben, ‘Appendix. The Supreme Music: Music and Politics,’ _What Is Philosophy?_ , (Stanford University Press, 2018), 97-107. Carl Schmitt, _The Concept of the Political_ (University of Chicago Press, 2008).  
---  
Week 2. Visual politics in Antiquity _Screen_ :  Akira Kurosawa, _Dreams_ (1990). Arthur Hiller, _Man of La Mancha_ (1972) _Reading_ (excerpt): Plato, ‘Book 4’ and ‘Book 7,’ _The Republic_ (Cambridge University Press, 2000). Aristotle, _Poetics_ (Oxford University Press, 2013).   
Week 3. Image and Sound _Screening_ :  Dziga Vertov, _The Man with the Movie Camera_ (1929) Francis Ford Coppola, _The Conversation_ (1974) Mark Herman, _Brassed Off_ (1996). _Reading_ (excerpt): Walter Benjamin, ‘The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction,’ _Illuminations_ (Random House, 2015), 211-244. Andrei Tarkovsky, ‘Chapter III: Imprinted Time,’ _Sculpting in Time: Reflections on the Cinema_ (University of Texas Press, 1989), 57-81.  
Week 4. Mise-en-scène, Action, and Speeches _Screening_ :  Michael Curtiz, _Casablanca_ (1942). Alfred Hitchcock, _North by Northwest_ (1959). _Reading_ (excerpt): André Bazin, ‘De Sica: Metteur en Scene,’ _What Is Cinema, Vol.__II_ (University of California Press, 1971), 61-78. Francois Truffaut, _Hitchcock_ (Simon & Schuster, 1985). Amos Vogel, _Film as a Subversive Art_ (CT Editions, 2005).  
Week 5. Montage and Narrative _Screening_ :  David Lynch, _Mulholland Drive_ (2001). Sergei Eisenstein, _Battleship Potemkin_ (1925). _Reading_ (excerpt): Sergei Eisenstein, ‘The Montage of Attraction,’ _The Eisenstein Reader_ (Bloomsbury, 2019). Suzanne Speidel, ‘Film form and Narrative,’ Jill Nelmes ed., _Introduction to Film Studies_ (Taylor & Francis, 2011).  
Week 6. Genre, Propaganda, and Censorship _Screening_ :  François Truffaut, _Fahrenheit 451_ (1966). Gillo Pontecorvo, _The Battle of Algiers_ (1966). Ernst Lubitsch, _Ninotchka_ (1939). _Reading_ (excerpt): Matthew D. Johnson, ‘Propaganda and Censorship in Chinese Cinema,’ in Yingjin Zhang ed., A Companion to Chinese Cinema (Wiley Blackwell, 2012), 151-178. Megan Boler and Selena Nemorin, ‘Dissent, Truthiness, and Scepticism in the Global Media Landscape: Twenty-first Century Propaganda in Times of War,’ Jonathan Auerbach and Russ Castronovo eds., _The Oxford Handbook of Propaganda Studies_ (Oxford University Press, 2013), 395-417.  
Week 7. Stars, Audience, and Auteur _Screening_ :  Coralie Fargeat, _The Substance_ (2024).  Joseph Leo Mankiewicz, _All about Eve_ (1950). Federico Fellini, _8½_ (1963). _Reading_ (excerpt): Richard Dyer, ‘2 Production: Consumption’ and ‘3 Ideology,’ _Stars_ (Bloomsbury, 2019), 9-32. Michel Foucault, ‘What Is an Author?,’ _Aesthetics, Method, and Epistemology: Essential Works of Foucault 1954-1984_ (Penguin, 2019).  
Week 8. Documentary and Political Action _Screening_ :  Joshua Oppenheimer, _Jagal_(_The Act of Killing_ , 2015). Jehane Noujaim, _The Square_ (2013).  _Reading_ (excerpt): Godmillow, Jill and Shapiro, Anne-Louise. “How Real is the Reality in Documentary Film?” History and Theory 36, 4 (1997), pp. 80-101. Christensen, Terry (1987). “You Provide the Prose Poems,” “Power Is Not a Toy,” _Reel Politics: American Political Movies from Birth of a Nation to Platoon_ (), pp. 55-62, 111-24.  
Week 9. From Text to Discourse _Screening_ :  Bob Fosse, _All That Jazz_ (1979) Jiang Wen, _Gone with the Bullets_ (2014). _Reading_ (excerpt): Jason Dittmer and Daniel Bos, ‘3. Methodologies: Researching Popular Geopolitics,’ _Popular Culture, Geopolitics, and Identity_(Rowman & Littlefield, 2019), 45-67. Kevin C. Dunn and Iver B. Neumann, ’26. Discourse Analysis,’ Xavier Guillaume and Pinar Bilgin eds., _Routledge Handbook of International Political Sociology_ (Routledge, 2017), 262-271.  
Week 10. From Psychology to Ideology _Screening_ :  Stanley Kubrick, _A Clockwork Orange_ (1971). David Fincher, _Fight Club_ (1999). Jiang Wen, _In the Heat of the Sun_ (1993). _Reading_ (excerpt): Louis Althusser, ‘Ideology and Ideological State Apparatus,’ _On the Reproduction of Capitalism_ (Verso, 2014). Jean-Louis Baudry, ‘Ideological Effects of the Basic Cinematographic Apparatus,’ _Film Quarterly_ , 28(2):Winter, 1974-1975, 39-47.  
Week 11. History, Fiction, and Adaptation _Screening_ :  Nemes László, _Saul fia_ [_Son of Saul_] (2015) James Ivory, _The Remains of the Day_ (1993). Joe Wright, _Darkest Hour_ (2017) _Reading_ (excerpt): Carl Boggs and Pollard Tom, ‘Chapter 3. War and Cinema: The Historical Legacy,’ _The Hollywood War Machine: U.S. Militarism and Popular Culture_ (Taylor & Francis, 2017). Jutta Weldes, ‘1. Popular Culture, Science Fiction, and World Politics: Exploring Intertextual Relations,’ in Jutta Weldes ed., _To Seek Out New Worlds: Science Fiction and World Politics_(Palgrave Macmillan, 2003), 1-29.  
Week 12.Nation, Civilization, and Cinema _Screening_ :  Alexander Nikolayevich Sokurov, _Russian Ark_ (2002). Roland Joffé, _The Mission_ (1986). _Reading_ (excerpt): de Vitoria, Francisco, _Political Writings_ (Cambridge University Press, 1991). Carl Schmitt, _The Nomos of the Earth in the International Law of the Jus Publicum Europaeum_ (Telos, 2003).  
Week 13. Gender, Class, and Cinema _Screening_ : Huang Ji and Ryuji Otsuka, _Stonewalling_ (2022) Sir Charles Spencer "Charlie" Chaplin, _City Lights_ (1931) _Reading_ (excerpt): Laura Mulvey, ‘Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema,’ _Screen_ , 16(3):1975, 6–18. Cowie, Elizabeth, ‘Women as Sign,’ _Feminism and Film_ , E. Ann Kaplan ed. (Oxford University Press, 2000), 48-65.  
Week 14. War, Peace, and Cinema _Screening_ :  Andrzej Witold Wajda, _Katyn_ (207). Jiang Wen, _Devils on the Doorstep_ (2000). _Reading_(excerpt): Paul Virilio, _War and Cinema: The Logistics of Perception_ (Verso, 1989). Aquinas, Saint Thomas. _Aquinas: Political Writings_. R. W. Dyson trans. (Cambridge University Press, 2002). Immanuel Kant, _Toward Perpetual Peace and Other Writings on Politics, Peace, and History_ (Yale University Press, 2006), 67-109.  
Week 15. The Future of Cinema and Politics _Screening_ :  Jafar Panahi, _Taxi_ (2015) Lou Ye, _An Unfinished Film_ (2024) _Reading_ (excerpt): Frantz Fanon, _The Wretched of the Earth_ (Grove Press, 1963). Leo Strauss, _Natural Right and History_ (University of Chicago Press, 1953). Carl Schmitt, _The Concept of the Political_ (University of Chicago Press, 2008).  
Week 16. Debates
  1. Zhang Yimou’s _Hero_ vs. S. Rajamouli’s _RRR: Roudram Ranam Rudhiram_.
  2. Hajime Isayama’s _Attack on Titan_ vs. Edward Zwick’s _Defiance_
  3. Guo Zen’s _Ten Years_ vs. Bahman Ghobadi’s _No One Knows About Persian Cats_
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.