國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：華語特別班基礎華語
#####  Course Name: Mandarin Course-Part-time Basic Mandarin
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：088500031 Course No.088500031
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：華語文中心 Course Department:Chinese Language Center 
  * 授課老師：簡汎霓 Instructor: Chien FanNi 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二78E Session: tue16-19
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course focuses on increasing students’ cultural awareness and four language skills (listening, speaking, reading, and writing). 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Topic |  Learning Objectives |  Grammar |  Culture  
---|---|---|---  
Pronunciation  |  Introduce initials, vowels, pronunciation, positions, tones and spelling, as well as introduce five sets of basic conversations. | 
  1. Everyday Language
  2. Classroom phrases
|  Simple replies in everyday life.  
Welcome to Taiwan! | 
  1. Learning simple greetings.
  2. Learning simple phrases to introduce people.
  3. Learning simple phrases to discuss likes/ dislikes.
  4. Learning simple phrases to express gratitude.
| 
  1. Ways to Ask Questions in Chinese
  1. Asking a Question with A-not-A
  2. Asking Questions with 嗎 _ma_
  1. Answering Questions in Chinese
  1. Affirmative Answers
  2. Negative Replies with 不 _bù_
  1. Modification Marker 很 _hěn_
  2. Contrastive Questions with 呢 _ne_
|  1. Tea Culture 2. Chinese Nicknames  
My Family | 
  1. Learning to talk about people in my family members and their names.
  2. Learning to describe people, places, and possessions.
  3. Learning to talk about the number of people in a family.
| 
  1. 的 _de_ possessive
  2. Modifier Marker 的 _de_
  3. 有 _yǒu_ possessive
  4. 都 _dōu_ totality
  5. Measures 個 _ge_ and 張 _zhāng_
|  Family Central to Chinese Culture  
What Are You Doing Over the Weekend? | 
  1. Learning to describe likes/dislikes (e.g., sports and movies).
  2. Learning to express what two groups have in common.
  3. Learning to politely ask others their opinions and make simple suggestions.
  4. Learning to form choice questions.
| 
  1. Placement of Time Words
  2. To Go Do Something with去 _qù_
  3. Topic Sentences
  4. The Word Order of Adverbs 也 _yě_ , 都 _dōu_ and 常 _cháng_
  5. Making Suggestions 吧 _ba_
|  A One-of-a kind Leisure Activity—Shrimp Fishing  
Excuse Me. How much Does That Cost in Total?  | 
  1. Learning to ask and talk about prices.
  2. Learning to ask for reasons.
  3. Learning to use simple phrases to describe the size and function of common objects.
| 
  1. Measures 塊 _kuài_ , 杯 _bēi_ , 支 _zhī_ and 種 _zhǒng._
  2. Preposition 幫 _bāng_ on behalf of
  3. 的 De-phrase with the Head Noun Omitted
  4. 太…了 _tài…le_ overly
  5. 能 _néng_ capability
  6. 多 _duō_ …and more
|  Around-the-clock Convenience Stores  
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week 1 |  Feb 18 |  Pronunciation + Pinyin  
---|---|---  
Week 2 |  Feb 25 |  Book 1 Lesson 1  
Week 3 |  Mar 04 |  Book 1 Lesson 1  
Week 4 |  Mar 11 |  Book 1 Lesson 1  
Week 5 |  Mar 18 |  Book 1 Lesson 2  
Week 6 |  Mar 25 |  Book 1 Lesson 2  
Week 7 |  Apr 01 |  Book 1 Lesson 2  
Week 8 |  Apr 08 |  Midterm Exam (Lesson 1-2)  
Week 9 |  Apr 15 |  Book 1 Lesson 3  
Week 10 |  Apr 22 |  Book 1 Lesson 3  
Week 11 |  Apr 29 |  Book 1 Lesson 3  
Week 12 |  May 06 |  Book 1 Lesson 4  
Week 13 |  May 13 |  Book 1 Lesson 4  
Week 14 |  May 20 |  University anniversary / Athletic contests (no class)  
Week 15 |  May 27 |  Book 1 Lesson 4  
Week 16 |  Jun 03 |  Final Exam (Lesson 1-4)  
Week 17 |  Jun 10 |  No class  
Week 18 |  Jun 17  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.