國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：資訊融入教與學
#####  Course Name: Instruction and Learning Using Computer
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：102790001 Course No.102790001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：教育一 Course Department:Education/B/1 
  * 授課老師：曾聖翔 Instructor: TSENG SHENG-SHIANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
本門非英語授課課程。但教材會以友善的英文為主。
This course focuses on educational technology, learning theories, and pedagogical practices. Students will engage in theoretical discussions, practical applications, and reflective exercises to develop technology-enhanced instructional activities. The course begins with an overview of educational technology and its contextual relevance. It then delves into directed and social constructivist pedagogical models to bridge the theory and practices. In addition, students will recognize and evaluate the role of generative AI in enhancing teaching, fostering higher-order thinking skills, and increasing learner engagement. Cross-disciplinary applications of technology in language and science education will also be explored.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備教育學基礎理論與方法 Acquisition of theory and method of pedagogy
  * B. 具備教學實務經驗與技能 Possess practical teaching experiences and skills
  * C. 具備教育行政與政策的基礎理論與知識 Possess the basic theory and knowledge of educational administration and policy
  * D. 具備對教育議題整合創新的探究興趣 • Innovative inquiry into education issues
  * E. 具備教育研究法相關專業知識與倫理 • Possession of professional knowledge and ethics in education research law
  * F. 具備處理行政事務的基本操守與溝通能力 Ability to handle administrative matters with basic ethics and communication skills
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of this course, students will be able to:
  1. Explain the role of educational technology
  2. Integrate technology into teaching
  3. Design AI-assisted learning activities
  4. Apply technology integration strategies across disciplines
  5. Engage in reflective instructional practice
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 3 週 Week 3 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Weeks |  Topics |  Cotent and Reading assignemnt |  Teaching activities & homework |  Students Involved Time Include Teaching Hours）  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course introduction and Getting to know each other |  Syllabus |  Lecture & Discussion |  3+2  
2 |  TPACK  |  TPACK Mishra, P., Warr, M., & Islam, R. (2023). TPACK in the age of ChatGPT and Generative AI.  _Journal of Digital Learning in Teacher Education_ ,  _39_(4), 235-251. |  Lecture & Discussion |  3+2  
3 |  彈性教學周 |  Browse 101 creative ideas to use AI in education  |  Reading |  3+2  
4 |  Educational technology |  Chapter 1: Hughes, J. E., & Roblyer, M. D. (2023). Educatoinal technology in context Critique of 101 creative ideas |  Lecture & Discussion |  3+2  
5 |  Theory into practice  |  Chapter 2: Hughes, J. E., & Roblyer, M. D. (2023).  _Theory into practice Part I_ Critique of 101 creative ideas |  Lecture & Discussion |  3+2  
6 |  TELL |  Chapter 8: Hughes, J. E., & Roblyer, M. D. (2023).  _Teachng and learning languages with technology_ Critique of 101 creative ideas |  Lecture & Discussion |  3+2  
7 |  Holliday |  0  
8 |  Midterm |  Midterm |  |  3+2  
9 |  Generative AI and teaching (I): Introduction |  GAI Introduction and RAG Critique of 101 creative ideas |  Lecture & Discussion |  3+2  
10 |  Generative AI and teaching (II): Design course with Generative  |  Design course with Generative AI: Video Link Critique of 101 creative ideas |  Lecture & Discussion |  3+2  
11 |  Generative AI and teaching (III): Design course with Generative  |  Human-AI colloabrations Critique of 101 creative ideas |  Lecture & Discussion |  3+2  
12 |  Generative AI and teaching (IV): Invited speaker |  AI Techniques |  Lecture & Discussion |  3+2  
13 |  Design AI-assisted learning activities:  |  Design AI-assisted learning activities workshop |  Hands-on activities |  3+2  
14 |  Design AI-assisted learning actvitities (II) |   
15 |  Final presentation: AI-assisted  |  Presentations of final project | Presentations |  3+2  
16 |  Final presentation: AI-assisted learning activity |  AI-assisted learning activities presentation |  Presentations |  3+2  
17 | Reflecton & Refine AI-assisted learning activity:  | Submit revision, highlight changes, and provide rationales of the changes |  Revision of AI-assisted learning activities (including rationales of the changes) |  3+2  
18 | Revise AI-assisted learning activity (彈性教學周) | Submit revision, highlight changes, and provide rationales of the changes |  Revision of AI-assisted learning activities (including rationales of the changes) |  3+2  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.