國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：數位學習
#####  Course Name: E-learning
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：102821001 Course No.102821001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：教育二 Course Department:Education/B/2 
  * 授課老師：曾聖翔 Instructor: TSENG SHENG-SHIANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三56 Session: wed14-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course focuses on the design and application of digital instruction tools to equip students with the knowledge and skill to integrate technology into teaching. Based on the principles of instructional design and learning theories, students will create a technology-assisted lesson plan tailored to diverse learners. This course emphasizes hands-on practice where students will learn to use various digital tools (e.g., Playground AI, ChatGPT, Stornaway.io, Edpuzzle, Padlet) to develop innovative teaching practices. For example, students will have opportunities to design and produce digital teaching videos, create asynchronous and synchronous activities, and apply advanced technologies like ChatGPT. By the end of the course, students will be able to design, implement, and evaluate effective teaching activities supported by instructional technology.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備教育學基礎理論與方法 Acquisition of theory and method of pedagogy
  * B. 具備教育研究法相關專業知識與倫理 • Possession of professional knowledge and ethics in education research law
  * C. 具備教學實務經驗與技能 Possess practical teaching experiences and skills
  * D. 具備對教育議題整合創新的探究興趣 • Innovative inquiry into education issues
  * E. 具備教育行政與政策的基礎理論與知識 Possess the basic theory and knowledge of educational administration and policy
  * F. 具備處理行政事務的基本操守與溝通能力 Ability to handle administrative matters with basic ethics and communication skills
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of this course, students will be able to design, implement, and evaluate effective teaching activities supported by instructional technology. Specifically, they will be able to 
  1. Recognize instructional design principles and learning theories
  2. Design technology-assisted lessons
  3. Review and critique technology tools
  4. Integrate technology to teaching practices
  5. Analyze and reflect on instructional effectiveness
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Weeks |  Topic |  Content and Reading asisgnemnt |  Teaching activities & homework |  Students Involved Time （Include Teaching Hours）  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course introduction and Getting to know each other |  Syllabus |  Lecture & Discussion |  2+2  
2 |  Principles of instructional design with technology  |  Preservice Teachers’ Views of Appropriate Technology |  Lecture & Discussion |  2+2  
3 |  Learning theories and strategies |  Instructional design and methodologies  |  Lecture & Discussion |  2+2  
4 |  ADDIE: Analysis  |  Instructional Design Methods integrating instructional technology Chapter 1: Branch, R. (2009). Instructional design: The ADDIE approach. 2nd ed. Athens: Springer. |  Lecture & Discussion |  2+2  
5 |  ADDIE: Design and Development |  Chapters 2: Branch, R. (2009). Instructional design: The ADDIE approach. 2nd ed. Athens: Springer. Yeh, H.-C. & Tseng, S.-S.* (2019). Using the ADDIE model to nurture the development of teachers’ CALL professional knowledge. Journal of Educational Technology & Society, 22(3), 88–100. |  Lecture & Discussion Post at least one question in an online dsicusion board |  2+2  
6 |  ADDIE: Implement and Evaluate |  Review cases of digital instructional courses  |  Lecture & Discussion Post at least one question in an online dsicusion board |  2+2  
7 |  Holliday | Holliday | Holliday |   
8 |  Week 8 ABC workshop |  Design lesson plan (ABC framework) |  Lecture & Discussion Hands-on practices |  2+2  
9 |  Week 9 Midterm presentation | Present and Demo lesson plan |  Lecture & Discussion Hands-on practices |  2+2  
10 |  Instructoinal designer (Speaker) |  Roles of instructional designers Effective online courses |  Presentations |  2+2  
11 |  Tools for digital storytelling |  Bookcreator, Playground AI, ChatGPT |  Lecture & Discussion Hands-on practices |  2+2  
12 |  Tools for higher-order thinking skill training |  Concept mapping tools |  Lecture & Discussion Hands-on practices |  2+2  
13 |  Technology integrated into lesson plan workshop (I) |  Integrate technology into lesso plans | Hands-on practices |  2+2  
14 |  School Anniversary and Sports Day Holiday |  2+2  
15 | Technology integrated into lesson plan workshop  | Group consultation  | Hands-on practices |  2+2  
16 |  Final project presentation |  Present technolog-assisted lesson plans | Discussion |  2+2  
17-18 |  Revise lesson plans | Submit revision, highlight changes, and provide rationales of the changes |  Revision of lesson plans (inlcuding rationales of the changes) |  0  
####  其他： Others: Invited speaker 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.