國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：組織學習與教育創新研究
#####  Course Name: Organizational Learning and Education Innovation
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：152554001 Course No.152554001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：教育碩一、教育博一、教育碩二、教育博二 Course Department:Education/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：顏敏仁 Instructor: YAN MIN-REN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is a joint learning program with University of Oxford and MIT-affiliated learning materials. The course focuses on organizational learning and systems leadership for education innovation comprising education policy and management. The course begins with an analysis of models of group and organizational learning. Theoretical models and empirical findings are then presented about knowledge creation, retention and transfer. We will read “classics” as well as work currently in press from a variety of disciplines.
To support effective education innovation, this course explains the importance of changing the leadership model from traditional leadership to systems leadership in practices. Some of the changes must be done individually, for example how to view future problems (mental model) and the ability to continue to improve themselves (personal mastery). Group changes are also necessary, this is achieved through team learning to create a shared vision. Both the individual and group approach is within the frame of systems thinking. 
To establish systems thinking and systems leadership abilities as an essential part of improving the performance in the education system, a learning organization is necessary. Thus, the steps to create an organization that learns continuously for education innovation is also an important topic in this course.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHIJKL雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備教育心理與輔導諮商的專業知識 Specialized knowledge of educational psychology and consultation with counselors
  * B. 具備國際觀與學術競爭力 Global perspective and academic competitiveness
  * C. 具備創意與獨立思考的能力 Ability to think independently and creatively
  * D. 具備教育基礎理論與研究方法的內涵 Equipped with fundamental educational theories and research methods
  * E. 具備執行研究與解決問題的能力 Ability to conduct research and solve problems
  * F. 具備多元教育觀與教育理念 Possessing a diversity of educational values and philosophies
  * G. 具備教育領域中高階專業知識與技能涵養 Acquire advanced professional knowledge and skills in the field of education
  * H. 具備教育領域的專業分析與決策管理能力 Professional analytical and decision making management skills in the field of education
  * I. 具備提出創新性問題解決的研究能力 Research capacity to propose innovative solutions to problems
  * J. 具備獨立研究與發表學術論文的能力 Demonstrated ability to conduct independent research and publish academic papers
  * K. 具備外語的溝通表達能力 Excellent communication skills in a foreign language
  * L. 具備優勢競爭力與合群性 Competitiveness and Synergy
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is designed for students to learn how to act and behave when dealing with the various fundamental changes in the local, regional, national, or global scale, particularly in the education systems. Therefore, the objectives of this course are for the student to: 
  1. Understand generative thinking, acting, and behavior when they meet various changes with education innovation issues. 
  2. Master the learning organization approach specifically, systems thinking, systems leadership and its application in education. 
  3. Develop ideas, steps, and how to apply systems leadership and systems thinking, and other learning programs (Mental Model, Personal Mastery, Shared Vision) for themselves and their environment/network. 
There are three requirements as learning outcomes for students taking this course for a grade. First, active participation in class discussion is expected. Second, each student must prepare a article review (or case review) and present the articles/case to the class. The review should be an analysis of the authors’ theory, methods, and findings. Third, a research proposal or case study relevant to organizational learning and education innovation with systems leadership is required. Your proposal should identify and define an interesting research question and very briefly describe the method that you would use to test your hypotheses. You will have an opportunity to present your proposal to the class for feedback.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
|  週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 |  Course introduction |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
2 |  Learning organization and education systems innovation |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
3 |  Systems Thinking I  |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
4 |  Systems Thinking II  |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
5 |  Mental Model I  |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
6 |  Shared Vision  |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
7 |  Mental Model II  Dialogue: Building Inter-Subject Relations |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
8 |  Case studies |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
9 |  Mid-term project review |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
10 |  Learning Organization and Team Learning I (Definition of LO and its applications/implementations in education)  |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
11 |  Learning Organization and Team Learning II  (Definition of LO and its applications/implementations in education) |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
12 |  Group Project and Systems Mapping |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
13 |  Group Project and Systems Mapping |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
14 |  Personal Mastery |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
15 |  Education Systems Leadership in Practices |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
16 |  Education Systems Leadership in Practices |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
17 |  Reflections on Education Policy and Management |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
18 |  Term Project review |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.