國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：教學設計與科技研究 
#####  Course Name: Study on Instructional Design of Educational Technology
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：152637001 Course No.152637001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：教育碩一、教育博一、教育碩二、教育博二 Course Department:Education/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：洪煌堯 Instructor: HONG HUANG-YAO 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is intended as an introduction to the theoretical and practical issues related to the creation of effective instructional activities and e-learning environments that help shape learning and the educational world. Throughout history, human beings engage in design by improving existing or creating new things, such as new tools, symbols, processes, organizations, systems. Similarly, new ideas for designing instructional activities are created. To come up with an initial idea, and then to increase its value, utility, and coherence, is at the core of such instructional design and technology activity. This class is about instructional design theory and activity, and the related instructional technologies.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHIJKL雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備教育心理與輔導諮商的專業知識 Specialized knowledge of educational psychology and consultation with counselors
  * B. 具備教育基礎理論與研究方法的內涵 Equipped with fundamental educational theories and research methods
  * C. 具備國際觀與學術競爭力 Global perspective and academic competitiveness
  * D. 具備創意與獨立思考的能力 Ability to think independently and creatively
  * E. 具備多元教育觀與教育理念 Possessing a diversity of educational values and philosophies
  * F. 具備執行研究與解決問題的能力 Ability to conduct research and solve problems
  * G. 具備教育領域中高階專業知識與技能涵養 Acquire advanced professional knowledge and skills in the field of education
  * H. 具備教育領域的專業分析與決策管理能力 Professional analytical and decision making management skills in the field of education
  * I. 具備提出創新性問題解決的研究能力 Research capacity to propose innovative solutions to problems
  * J. 具備獨立研究與發表學術論文的能力 Demonstrated ability to conduct independent research and publish academic papers
  * K. 具備外語的溝通表達能力 Excellent communication skills in a foreign language
  * L. 具備優勢競爭力與合群性 Competitiveness and Synergy
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  1. Be able to experience the contrasts brought by the good and bad instructions.
  2. Be able to have a solid grasp of some of the best literature in design and learning.
  3. Be able to develop an awareness of how underlying epistemology affects design. 
  4. Be able to expose to a wide variety of instructional frameworks that you can use to guide the future design and implementation of instruction. 
  5. Be able to critically analyze an instructional design model and decompose it into several critical events or challenges.
  6. Be able to think about research issues of instructional design. 
Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes Assessment Plan as following:
Assessment Tools & Criteria Course Objectives &  Learning Outcomes |  Assessment Tools |  Assessment Criteria  
---|---|---  
Quiz/ Exam |  Report/ Presentation |  Learning Reflection Diary |  Learning Profile |  Quiz Map |  Rubric  
Be able to experience the contrasts brought by the good and bad instructions. |  |  |  ※ |  ※ |  |  ※  
Be able to have a solid grasp of some of the best literature in design and learning. |  |  ※ |  ※ |  ※ |  |  ※  
Be able to develop an awareness of how underlying epistemology affects design. |  |  ※ |  ※ |  ※ |  |  ※  
Be able to expose to a wide variety of instructional frameworks that you can use to guide the future design and implementation of instruction. |  |  ※ |  ※ |  ※ |  |  ※  
Be able to critically analyze an instructional design model and decompose it into several critical events or challenges. |  |  ※ |  ※ |  ※ |  |  ※  
Be able to think about research issues of instructional design. |  |  ※ |  ※ |  ※ |  |  ※  
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week |  Topic & Reading Materials |  Activities & Class Assignments/Tasks |  Students Involved Time （Include Teaching Hours）  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction of this course |  Activities:
  1. What learning is?
  2. What instructional design is?
  3. What educational technology is?
Tasks:
  1. Reading Week 2 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum
|  3+5  
2 | 
  1. Design issues for learning environments
  2. Collins, A. (1996)._Design issues for learning environments._ In Vosniadou, S., Corte, E. E., Glaser, R. & Mandl, H. (Eds.). International perspectives on the design of technology-supported learning environments, (pp. 347-361). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc.
|  Activities:
  1. Group discussion
  2. Debate
Tasks:
  1. Reading Week 3 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum
|  3+5  
3 |  What is instruction-design theory and how is it changing? Reigeluth, C. M. (1996). _What is instruction-design theory and how is it changing?_ In Reigeluth, C. (Eds.). Instructional-design theories and models: A new paradigm of instructional theory. Pp. 5-31. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc. |  Activities:
  1. Posing questions 
  2. Exchanging ideas of instructional design
Tasks:
  1. Reading Week 4 paper and post at least one question or reflection note in Knowledge Forum
|  3+5  
4 |  Epistemological foundation for instructional design Hong, H. Y., & Sullivan, F. R. (2009). An idea-centered, principle-based design approach to support learning as knowledge creation. _Educational Technology Research and Development, 57_(5), 613-627. |  Activities:
  1. Posing questions 
  2. Introducing idea-centered, principle-based design approach to support learning as knowledge creation
Tasks:
  1. Reading Week 5 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum
|  3+5  
5 | 
  1. Introduction of learning technology
Lin, X.D., Hmelo, C., Kinzer, C., & Secules, T. (1999). Designing technology to support reflection. _Educational Technology Research & Development, 47_ (3), 43-62. |  Activities:
  1. Posing questions 
  2. Sharing different types of learning technologies
Tasks:
  1. Reading Week 6 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum
|  3+5  
6 | 
  1. Task-driven instructional design model
Dick, A. (1996). The Dick and Carey model: Will it survive the decade? _Educational Technology Research & Development, 44_(3), 55-63. |  Activities:
  1. Posing questions 
  2. Group discussion
Tasks:
  1. Reading Week 7 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum
|  3+5  
7 |  Contrasting case-based instructional design model Gick, M. L., & Paterson, E. J. (1992). Do contrasting examples facilitate schema acquisition and analogical transfer? _Canadian Journal of Psychology, 46,_ 539-550. |  Activities:
  1. Posing questions 
  2. Designing a case-based instructional design
Tasks:
  1. Reading Week 8 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum
|  3+5  
8 |  Problem-Based instructional design model Hmelo-Silver, C. (2004). Problem-based learning: What and how do students learn? _Educational Psychology Review, 16_(3), 235-266. |  Activities:
  1. Posing questions 
  2. Designing a problem-based instructional design
Task:
  1. Prepare midterm project presentation
|  3+5  
9 |  Midterm 1 |  Activities:
  1. Midterm paper/project presentation #1 
Tasks:
  1. Upload presentation materials to Knowledge Forum
|  3+5  
10 | 
  1. Midterm 2
|  Activities:
  1. Midterm paper/project presentation #2
Tasks:
  1. Upload presentation materials to Knowledge Forum
  2. Reading Week 11 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum
|  3+5  
11 | 
  1. Goal-Based and case-based instructional design model
Schank, R. C., Berman, T. R. & Macpherson, K. A. (1999). _Learning by doing._ In Reigeluth, C. (Eds.). Instructional-design theories and models: A new paradigm of instructional theory. Pp. 161-181. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Inc. |  Activities:
  1. Posing questions 
  2. Comparing and contrasting goal-based and 
case-based instructional design Tasks:
  1. Reading Week 12 paper and post at least one 
question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum |  3+5  
12 | 
  1. Anchored and Situated Instructional Design Model
CTGV (1990). Anchored instruction and its relationship to situated cognition. _Educational Researcher, 3,_ 2-10. |  Activities:
  1. Posing questions 
  2. Watching video
  3. Group discussion
Tasks:
  1. Reading Week 13 paper and post at least one 
question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum |  3+5  
13 | 
  1. Reflectively Adaptive Instructional Model
Schwartz. D.L., Lin, X.D., Brophy, S., & Bransford, J.D. (1999). _Toward the development of flexibly adaptive instructional designs._ To appear in C. M. Reigeluth (Eds.), Instructional Design Theories and Models, Vol. II. (pp. 183-213). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. |  Activities:
  1. Posing questions 
  2. Analyzing the main concepts of reading materials
  3. Sharing ideas on whiteboard
Tasks:
  1. Reading Week 14 paper and post at least one 
question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum |  3+5  
14 | 
  1. Inquiry-Based Instructional Design
White, B. Y.; Shimoda, T. A. & Frederiksen, J. R. (1999). Enabling students to construct theories of collaborative inquiry and reflective learning: Computer support for metacognitive development. _The International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education, 10_(2), 1-33. |  Activities:
  1. Posing questions 
  2. Designing inquiry-based instructional design
Tasks:
  1. Reading Week 15 paper and post at least one 
question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum |  3+5  
15 | 
  1. Cultural-oriented Instructional Design Model
Lin, X. D. & Kinzer, C. (2003). Importance of technology for making cultural values explicit. _Theory In Practice, 42_ (3), 234-242.  Retrieved at: http://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/ mi_m0NQM/is_3_42/ai_108442651 |  Activities:
  1. Posing questions 
  2. Small group discussion
Task:
  1. Reading Week 16 paper and post at least one 
question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum |  3+5  
16 |  Human-centered Design Model Hong, H.-Y. & Lin-Siegler, X. (2012). How learning about scientists’ struggles influences students’ interest and learning in Physics. _Journal of Educational Psychology._ |  Activities:
  1. Posing questions 
  2. Visiting VR exhibition
Tasks:
  1. Prepare final project
|  3+5  
17 |  Revision and Summary |  Activities:
  1. Final project Prepare
Tasks:
  1. Upload materials to Knowledge Forum
  2. Working on individual final report
|  3+5  
18 |  Final report |  Activities:
  1. Final project submit
Task:
  1. Upload materials to Knowledge Forum
  2. Hand in final report
|  3  
####  其他： Others: Midterm and final project and/or presentation 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.