國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：哲學與文學
#####  Course Name: Philosophy and Literature
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：154238001 Course No.154238001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3,0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：哲學碩一、哲學博一、哲學碩二、哲學博二、哲學碩三、哲學博三、哲學碩四、哲學博四 Course Department:Philosophy/G/1&2&3&4 
  * 授課老師：馬愷之 Instructor: MARCHAL KAI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二34C Session: tue10-13
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course invites students to thoughtfully explore the intricate and often ambiguous relationship between literature and philosophy. Through close reading and analysis of selected texts from literary and philosophical traditions - primarily European and American, with supplementary materials from East Asia - the course will examine key questions at the intersection of these disciplines.
We will focus on a few major themes: How did philosophers like Plato, Aristotle, Kant, and Nietzsche perceive the function of literary works? How did they differentiate between literary and philosophical discourses, and what motivated these distinctions? Why have philosophers been intrigued by fiction and the concept of fictional truth? Why did many philosophers before the 20th century employ literary forms to engage with philosophical questions? And how do contemporary philosophers approach the study of literature? In addition, the course will address specific questions about the unique qualities of literary works: How can literature cultivate moral emotions? What is the connection between aesthetic perception, imagination, and character formation? How do we empathize with the perspectives of characters in novels or plays? Why do we feel sadness when reading about the death of fictional characters? These and other questions will guide our inquiry.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHIJ雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 哲學專業的學術研究能力Academic research ability for philosophy
  * B. 從事哲學相關教育的能力Pedagogical skills for philosophy-related subjects
  * C. 科技與人文關係之反思能力Ability to reflect on technology and humanities
  * D. 運用哲學素養處理社會問題的能力Calibre of attending to social issues
  * E. 哲學學術社群的互動交流能力Interaction with academic community
  * F. 學術研究成果的論述與發表能力Ability to narrate research results and publication capacity
  * G. 具備獨立哲學教學能力Ability to teach independently
  * H. 哲學專業語言的高級能力Advance academic language skills
  * I. 哲學專業研究的原創能力Research originality
  * J. 哲學跨領域研究的開展能力Interdisciplinary research ability
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The primary goal of this course is to encourage students to delve deeper into the nature of philosophy and philosophical discourse, examining its relationship to other disciplines and its entanglement within social and historical contexts. Additionally, students will gain a more comprehensive understanding of key themes and debates in the history of European philosophy.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
First Week: Introduction;
Second Week: On the relation between philosophy and literature; Christopher New, "What is Literature?";
Third Week: On the relation of philosophy and literature; excerpts from Aristotle's _Poetics_ ;
Fourth Week: Jonathan Lear, "Catharsis"; further excerpts from Aristotle's _Poetics_ ;
Fifth Week: Philosophy and Tragedy; excerpts from Aristotle, Hegel; Cascardi, "Tragedy and Philosophy";
Sixth Week: "Wisdom and Self-Knowledge in the Analects of Confucius and Xenophon's Memorabilia" (Matt Walker);
Seventh Week: The question of literary truth; excerpts from Plato, Hegel, Nietzsche; Lamarque, "Literature and Truth";
Eighth Week: Literature and ethics; Nussbaum; "Perceptive Equilibrium"; excerpts form Aristotle, Wittgenstein, Henry James;
Nineth Week: Paper Presentation (1);
Tenth Week: The relation between philosophy and literature outside Europe; excerpts from Confucius, Zhuangzi, and Zhu Xi; 
Eleventh Week: Attention and the Cultivation of Emotions; excerpts by Iris Murdoch;
Twelfth Week: Philosophy and literature in postmodernism; excerpts from Blanchot, Lyotard, Derrida, etc.;
Thirteenth Week: Is there something outside the text?; Hagberg, "Self-defining reading: Literature and the Constitution of Personhood";
Fourteenth Week: Metaphor theories and the analysis of literary language; 
Fiveteenth Week: The role of imagination; 
Sixteenth Week: Paper presentation (2).
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.