國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：圖書資訊學研究趨勢
#####  Course Name: Research Trends in Library and Information Science
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：155032001 Course No.155032001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：圖檔博一、圖檔博二 Course Department:Graduate Institute of Library, Information and Archival Studies/D/1&2 
  * 授課老師：蔡明月 Instructor: TSAY MING-YUEH 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五D56 Session: fri13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
The contents include:
  1. A historical overview of the nature, environment and evolution structure of library, information science and librarianship;
  2. The relevance of historical study to fundamental and continuing problems of the LIS, despite the technological and organizational developments that have occurred over the centuries;
  3. The social, political and technological factors and critical events that affected the LIS evolution;
  4. The issues and problems addressed in the LIS research, including:
     * types of research; components of the research process; the major research methods used in LIS research; LIS research trends versus library/LIS development; problems in LIS research, pluralist methodology/combining research methods, etc.
  5. The characteristics and the structures of the LIS research, including:
     * LIS research in LIS education; research and librarians; interdisciplinary/multidisciplinary research; professional associations and LIS research; the major contributors and research sponsors of LIS research; the funding organizations of LIS research, etc.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 圖書資訊與檔案學理論之專業基礎
  * B. 圖書資訊與檔案學之教學與研究能力
  * C. 圖書館、檔案館與文史機構之整體規劃、協調、管理及推廣能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course introduces students to the historical foundations of library, information science and librarianship and provides a basis for exploring more recent theoretical and experimental developments. The course offers students with the understanding of the major problems, developments and trends, mainly on the critical survey and discussion of current and classic research findings, in the LIS. The complex interactions of socio-cultural, technological and professional factors underlying the emergence and current status of LIS as a field of investigation and practice are also examined. The goals are to provide the students to:
1. Read broadly in the LIS, and is able to discuss issues and understand connections in the field, and is able to apply the LIS knowledge in a manner that is typical in scholarly work.
2. Establish a sufficient breadth and depth of knowledge in the LIS to pursue scholarly research, teaching, and practice.
3. Build up an ability for critical analysis of works and trends, stressing the approaches, theoretical frameworks and models, and methods used in the LIS and to conduct a reasonable scholarly analysis of the research literature, including:
  * Establishing the significance of issues, problems, and works.
  * Situating works in discourses of related research.
  * Evaluating the quality of the works' content, background, methodology, etc. and defending those evaluations with evidence.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 9 週 Week 9 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 10 週 Week 10 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
1 |  2/21 |  Course description, assignments, readings, evaluation, etc.  
---|---|---  
2 |  2/28 |  Definition of research  
3 |  3/07 |  Research of LIS   
4 |  3/14 |  Interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research of LIS   
5 |  3/21 |  International and comparative research in LIS  
6 |  3/28 |  Scholarly productivity of LIS  
7 |  4/04 |  Spring break  
8 |  4/11 |  自主學習  
9 |  4/18 |  自主學習  
10 |  4/25 | library automation trend research  
11 |  5/02 |  Citation analysis   
12 |  5/09 |  Informetrics  
13 |  5/16 |  Trends in academic and public libraries   
14 |  5/23 |  History of library, librarianship, LIS  
15 |  5/30 |  端午節  
16 |  6/06 |  Ethics and LIS  
17 |  6/13 |  Education and profession of LIS  
18 |  6/20 |  Final project presentation  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.