國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：組織學習與教育創新研究
#####  Course Name: Organizational Learning and Education Innovation
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：157832001 Course No.157832001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：幼教碩一、幼教碩二、幼教碩三、幼教碩四 Course Department:Early Childhood Education/M/1&2&3&4 
  * 授課老師：顏敏仁 Instructor: YAN MIN-REN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is a joint learning program with University of Oxford and MIT-affiliated learning materials. The course focuses on organizational learning and systems leadership for education innovation comprising education policy and management. The course begins with an analysis of models of group and organizational learning. Theoretical models and empirical findings are then presented about knowledge creation, retention and transfer. We will read “classics” as well as work currently in press from a variety of disciplines.
To support effective education innovation, this course explains the importance of changing the leadership model from traditional leadership to systems leadership in practices. Some of the changes must be done individually, for example how to view future problems (mental model) and the ability to continue to improve themselves (personal mastery). Group changes are also necessary, this is achieved through team learning to create a shared vision. Both the individual and group approach is within the frame of systems thinking. 
To establish systems thinking and systems leadership abilities as an essential part of improving the performance in the education system, a learning organization is necessary. Thus, the steps to create an organization that learns continuously for education innovation is also an important topic in this course.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 1.以多元文化視野進行獨立思考與探究，解決幼教專業問題之創意知能。
  * B. 2.具備幼教思潮與實踐課程教學之專業知能。
  * C. 3.具備幼教機構經營管理與團隊合作之領導知能。
  * D. 4.具備積極參與幼教公共政策形塑及宏觀思維之論述知能。
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is designed for students to learn how to act and behave when dealing with the various fundamental changes in the local, regional, national, or global scale, particularly in the education systems. Therefore, the objectives of this course are for the student to: 
  1. Understand generative thinking, acting, and behavior when they meet various changes with education innovation issues. 
  2. Master the learning organization approach specifically, systems thinking, systems leadership and its application in education. 
  3. Develop ideas, steps, and how to apply systems leadership and systems thinking, and other learning programs (Mental Model, Personal Mastery, Shared Vision) for themselves and their environment/network. 
There are three requirements as learning outcomes for students taking this course for a grade. First, active participation in class discussion is expected. Second, each student must prepare a article review (or case review) and present the articles/case to the class. The review should be an analysis of the authors’ theory, methods, and findings. Third, a research proposal or case study relevant to organizational learning and education innovation with systems leadership is required. Your proposal should identify and define an interesting research question and very briefly describe the method that you would use to test your hypotheses. You will have an opportunity to present your proposal to the class for feedback.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
|  週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 |  Course introduction |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
2 |  Learning organization and education systems innovation |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
3 |  Systems Thinking I  |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
4 |  Systems Thinking II  |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
5 |  Mental Model I  |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
6 |  Shared Vision  |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
7 |  Mental Model II  Dialogue: Building Inter-Subject Relations |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
8 |  Case studies |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
9 |  Mid-term project review |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
10 |  Learning Organization and Team Learning I (Definition of LO and its applications/implementations in education)  |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
11 |  Learning Organization and Team Learning II  (Definition of LO and its applications/implementations in education) |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
12 |  Group Project and Systems Mapping |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
13 |  Group Project and Systems Mapping |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
14 |  Personal Mastery |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
15 |  Education Systems Leadership in Practices |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
16 |  Education Systems Leadership in Practices |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
17 |  Reflections on Education Policy and Management |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
18 |  Term Project review |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion |  3 |  6-9  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.