國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：教育政策與全球化
#####  Course Name: Education policy and Globalization
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：171913001 Course No.171913001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：教政碩一、教政碩二、教政碩三 Course Department:Graduate Institute of Educational Administration and Policy/M/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：侯永琪 Instructor: HOU YUNG-CHI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16 
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course offers an overview of the development and trends of global education and its impacts on educational policy making in the 21st Century. It aims to help students understand the current issues of contemporary practices and problems addressed from globalization in Asian higher education particularly. In addition, this course is designed to help students acquire the ability to use academic English fluently and accurately in speaking and reading. Professional skill such as Presentation and collaborative will be focus of the course, too. 
For decades, the global community has agreed that education matters. Since the 40s, global community agreed that everyone has a right to education. Yet, in the 21st century millions of young people and adults still have very limited learning opportunities in developing countries. Rather than liberating the human spirit and fostering individuals’ development, some educational systems intensify cross-border competitiveness as well as inequalities. 
According to UNESCO, the poorest children are four times more likely to be out of primary school than richest children. An estimated one-third of all out-of-school children at the primary level have a disability. Aggregated analysis from 51 countries found a 10 percentage point gap in primary completion rates between people with and without disability, which is likely an underestimate. About 40% of people around the world are not taught in a language they speak or understand. Currently, the 263 million children, adolescents and youth are out of primary and secondary school; the 758 million adults lacking basic literacy and numeracy skills; and millions more experienced little improvement in their learning levels and employment prospects.
Since the late 20th century, globalization has become a powerful force with profound effects on the internationalization of education throughout the world. The multifaceted processes and dimensions of internationalization i are “integrating an international dimension into the purpose, goals, functions and delivery of higher education”. Due to advances in technology, the movement of students becomes more common as a global trend.
Based on the global trends in education and its influences on educational policy making, there are following major reading themes in the course: (1) Meaning and tensions of globalization in educational development (2) Sustainability and teacher education (3) Global Competition and Talent Race (4) Cross-border education and issues in Asian higher education (5) Quality assurance and qualification recognition. (6) globalization and liberal education
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備教育行政與政策議題之思維能力與專業知識
  * B. 具備優質教育行政及學校行政人員專業服務素質( 含創新、自省、溝通表達能力)
  * C. 具備執行教育行政及學校行政之領導與管理能力
  * D. 規劃執行教育行政與政策議題學術研究能力
  * E. 具備評析與改革教育行政與學校行政實務之能力
  * F. 秉持教育行政與學校行政人員應恪遵之道德操守
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
There are six learning outcomes and students will be able to acquire: 
1. To explain the advantages and disadvantages of globalization in educational development
  1. To realize trends and impact on education policies due to global forces 
  2. To Apply knowledge into their own application in advanced studies 
  3. To enhance English presentation skill and intercultural communication 
  4. To develop teamwork and critical thinking competencies 
6. To emphasize the ethics of responsibilities 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 10 週 Week 10 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
|  週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 2/19  |  Introduction  |  1. Realizing the students background, interests and expectations  |  Explain the syllabus and the required readings |  3 |  3  
2 2/ 26  |  Meaning and tensions of globalization in educational development |  1. Identify the English terminology in education  2. Rothenberg, L. E. (2003). The Three Tensions of Globalization. Occasional papers from the American forum for Global Education. 3. Ten trends for global higher education  |  Completing worksheet on globalization and defining globalization  |  3 |  3  
3 (3/5) |  Meaning and tensions of globalization in educational development |  1. Philip G. Altbach, Liz Reisberg and Laura E. Rumbley (2009). Globalization and Internationalization in Global Higher Education: Tracking an Academic Revolution 2. Philip G. Altbach & Hans de Wit (2018). The challenge to higher education internationalization. University World News, http://www.universityworldnews. com/article.php?story=20180220091648602 |  Facilitate class discussion based on the reading questions  |  3 |  4  
4 (3/10) |  Special lecture  |  Professor Mok lecture  |  Facilitate class discussions  |  3 |  5  
5 (3/19) |  Presentation (1)  |  Debate for pro and con of globalization  |  debate |  |   
6 (3/26) |  Sustainability, educational policy and teacher education | 
  1. 2030 SDG Education (pp. 35-56)
and Teacher Education 
  1. Teachers in Asia Pacific: Career profession and professional development (pp.1-4)
  2. Education in a post-COVID world:
Nine ideas for public action |  Facilitate class discussion based on the reading questions Attending  |  3 |  3  
6 (3/26) |  Sustainability and teacher education |  3. Sustainable development and global citizenship (pp.287-297) 4. Global Perspectives for Teacher Education (pp. 259-287) in Global Trends in Educational Policy 5. UNESCO. (2015). Investing Teachers Is Investing in Learning. Paris: UNESCO. 6. Leading Quality Education in the Asia-Pacific (No.108) in International Handbook on Education Development in the Asia-Pacific |  Facilitate class discussion based on the reading questions |  3 |  4  
7 (4/2)holidays |  Sustainability and teacher education |  Holidays  |  holidays |  3 |  3  
8 4/9 |  Presentation (2)  |  Hold a panel of the challenges that teachers education face in Taiwan in terms of sustainable development: how to make a good policy  |  Each group needs to hold a strategy meeting for quality enhancement of Teachers Education  |  3 |  6  
9 4/ 16 |  Mid-term  |  (INQAAHE talk) online  https://www.inqaahe.org/events/inqaahe-talks-on-march-28-2024/ |  Facilitate class discussion based on the reading questions |  3 |  5  
10 4/ 23 |  Global Competition and Talent Race |  1. Jung Cheol Shin & Barbara M. Kehm (2013). The world class university in different systems and contexts. 2. Altbach, P. and Salmi, J. (2011). The Road to Academic Excellence. Washington, D.C. : The World Bank. Crossley, M., Broadfood, P. & Schweisfurth, M. (2007). Changing Educational Contexts, Issues and Identities. London: Routledge 3. Hou, Angela Yung Chi (2023). Did Taiwan Academic Excellence Initiatives Build World-Class Universities? Governance, Funding Schemes, and Policy Shifts. In Maria Yudkevich, Philip G. Altbach, and Jamil Salmi (eds). Academic Star Wars Excellence Initiatives in Global Perspective (pp. 107-128). MIT Press. |  |  |   
11 (4/30) |  Global Competition and Talent Race | 
  1. Altbach, P. G. (2006, winter). The dilemmas of ranking. International Higher Education, 42.
  2. Institute of Higher Education, Shanghai Jiao Tong University (2023). 
  3. Academic Rankings of World Universities, Times Higher Education. (2023). _World University Rankings and impact ranking_
  4. QS (2023). QS World University Ranking and sustainability 
|  Ranking systems comparison and dilemma  |  3 |  6  
12 (5/7) |  Presentation (3) |  World class universities building and institutional strategic plan |  How Senior administrators develop strategic plan  |  3 |  6  
12 (5/ 9; 5/10)  |  Cross-border education and issues in Asian higher education |  1. Jane Knight (2007). “Cross-border Tertiary Education: an Introduction” in OECD (2007). Cross-border Tertiary Education. Paris: OECD & the World Bank. _2_ _.Hou, Angela Yung Chi_., Hsu, P. C. & Chou, H. C. (2021). Quality Assurance of Transnational Education in Asia. In Christopher Hill, Judith Lamie &Tim Core. eds (pp. 137-151). The Evolution of Transnational Education. Routledge. |  Facilitate class discussion based on the reading questions Professor JC Shin workshop  Attending PhD student forum on May 10 International students from Philippines |  3 |  3  
13 (5/14) |  Cross-border education and QA issues in Asian higher education |  1. Hans de Wit. (2014). The different faces and phases of internationalization of higher education in the Forefront of International Higher Education. Dordrecht, Springer. 2. Hou, Angela Yung Chi, Lin, F. Y, Su E. H. C., Chen, E.& Hill, C. (2024). Revisiting quality assurance and qualification recognition of cross-border higher education during pandemic – does physical mobility matter from an Asian perspective. Asian Education and Development, 13(1), 78-94 |  Facilitate class discussion based on the reading questions  |  3 |  3  
14 (5/21) |  QA and new global development  | 
  1. QA in Asia 
  2. QA of joint degree program in Asia 
|  Facilitate class discussion based on the reading questions |  3 |  3  
15 (5/28) |  QA and new global development | 
  1. Taiwan BEST program 
  2. QA of EMI
  3. Hou, A.Y.C., Su, E.H.C., Zhou, K.Z.-W., Tao, C.H.-Y., Lin, A.F.Y., Chen, Y., Hill, C. (2024). How do Quality Assurance Agencies in Asia Measure Higher Education? Exploring Approaches, Emerging Standards, and Challenges. Higher Education Policy. (online) https://doi.org/10.1057/s41307-024-00388-7
|  Facilitate class discussion based on the reading questions |  3 |  3  
16 (6/4)  |  Presentation (4)  | 
  1. APEC simulation 
|  Facilitate class discussion based on the reading questions |  3 |  3  
17 (6/11)  |  Self-study  |  Writeup  |  Write up  |  3 |  5  
18 (6/18) |  Final Exam  |  Final report  |  |  3 |  3  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.