國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：全球議題：對外援助與發展
#####  Course Name: Global Issues: Foreign Aid and Development
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：202807001 Course No.202807001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：政治三、政治四 Course Department:Political Science/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：李栢浡 Instructor: LEE PAI-PO 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三567 Session: wed14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
The United Nation (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a series of 17 goals for world development issues, including goal 1 end of poverty, goal 2 zero hunger, goal 3 health and wellbeing, goal 4 quality education, goal 5 gender equality, goal 6 water and sanitation, goal 7 affordable and renewable energy, goal 8 industry, innovation and infrastructure, goal 9 decent work and economic development, goal 10 reduce inequality, goal 11 cities and communities, goal 12 sustainable production and consumption , goal 13 climate action, goal 14 under the water, goal 15 on the land, goal 16 peace and justice as well as goal 17 global partnership. In order to achieve the SDGs before the designated 2030 deadline, resource allocation must play a critical role in the organization of global society.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course foreign aid and development issues aims to teach students to understand global trends in international development trends. For instance, the 2015 Paris Agreement goal is to limit global warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius, preferably to 1.5 degrees Celsius, compared to pre-industrial levels, 2023 COP 28 Dubai declaration end use fossil energy before2050. To achieve this long-term goal, countries aim to reach global peaking of greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) as soon as possible to achieve a net zero world by mid-century.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
  1. Development Co-operation Report 2024: Tackling Poverty and Inequalities through the Green Transition
  2. Multilateral Development Finance 2024
  3. Aid for Trade at a Glance 2024
  4. Policy Guidance: Enabling Inclusive Governance
  5. Biodiversity and Development Finance 2015-2022: Contributing to Target 19 of the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework
  6. Climate Finance Provided and Mobilized by Developed Countries in 2013-2022
  7. Informality and Households’ Vulnerabilities in Latin America
  8. OECD Youth Policy Toolkit
  9. Global State of National Urban Policy 2024: Building Resilience and Promoting Adequate, Inclusive and Sustainable Housing
  10. OECD Guidelines on Corporate Governance of State-Owned Enterprises 2024
  11. Enabling Digital Innovation in Government: The OECD GovTech Policy Framework
  12. The OECD Reinforcing Democracy Initiative: Monitoring Report – Assessing Progress and Charting the Way Forward
  13. Business Ready (B-READY) 2024
  14. World Development Report 2024
  15. Development Finance for Gender Equality 2024
  16. The Role of the G20 in Promoting Green and Just Transitions
  17. Effective Results Frameworks for Sustainable Development: Achieving Impact by Design
18. Methane Abatement in Developing Countries: Regulations, Incentives and Financ
19. Business Insights on Emerging Markets 2024 
20. Competition Policy in Digital Markets The Combined Effect of Ex Ante and Ex Post Instruments in G7 Jurisdictions 
21. Policy Scenarios for Eliminating Plastic Pollution by 2040
22. Tax Policy Reforms 2024
23. Global Monitoring of Policies for Decarbonizing Buildings
24. Pathways Towards Effective Locally Led Development Co-operation 
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.