國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：自由主義與其限制
#####  Course Name: Liberalism and its Limits
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：202818001 Course No.202818001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：政治三、政治四 Course Department:Political Science/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：周家瑜 Instructor: CHOU CHIA-YU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三567 Session: wed14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course examines the foundations, evolution, and critiques of liberal political philosophy, with a focus on the influential works of John Locke. Through close readings of Locke's _Second Treatise of Government_ and _A Letter Concerning Toleration_ , we will explore key liberal concepts such as natural rights, limited government, property rights, and religious toleration. 
Throughout the semester, students will develop critical thinking skills by discussing and presenting on the assigned readings. This course invites students to reflect on the enduring relevance and shortcomings of liberalism in both historical and modern contexts.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the course, students will develop a nuanced understanding of Locke’s political philosophy and gain the analytical tools to critically assess liberalism’s promises and its shortcomings. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Week |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |   
---|---|---|---  
1 |  |  Introduction |   
2 |  Conceptions of Liberty  |  Philip Pettit, _Republicanism_ , 17-27. |   
3 |  Locke against Patriarchal Absolutism |  Locke, 1988 _Second Treatises of Government_ , ch. VI Of Paternal Power, 303-318. |   
4 |  Natural rights and limited government |  _Second Treatises of Government_ , ch. 2-4, 269-285. |   
5 |  Political Society |  Locke, 1988. _Second Treatises of Government_ , ch. 7, 318-330.  |   
6 |  Property rights |  _Second Treatises of Government_ , ch.5, 285-302. |   
7 |  On Prerogative |  _Second Treatises of Government_ , ch. 13-14, 366-380. |   
8 |  |  TBA |   
9 |  |  The Midterm exam |   
10 |  Locke on Tyranny |  _Second Treatises of Government_ , ch. 18, 398-405. |   
11 |  Locke and Toleration  |  John Locke, 2010. _Locke on Toleration_ , 3-17.  |   
12 |  |  Locke, 2010. _Locke on Toleration_ , 17-37. |   
13 |  |  Locke, 2010. _Locke on Toleration_ , 37-46. |   
14 |  Locke and Colonialism |  David Armitage 2004 “John Locke, Carolina and the Two Treatises of Government”, _Political Theory_ , 602-27. |   
15 |  Locke and Feminism |  Jeremy Waldron, 2007 "Locke, Adam, and Eve."  _Feminist Interpretations of John Locke John Locke_ , 241-268. |   
16 |  |  Final exam |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.