國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際貿易
#####  Course Name: International Trade
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：203077001 Course No.203077001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外交三 Course Department:Diplomacy/B/3 
  * 授課老師：胡聯國 Instructor: HU LEN-KUO 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二56 Session: tue14-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
The theory of international trade is concerned with the effects of trade on resource allocation and income distribution both among and within each of the participating countries. Three related issues have been the focus of attention. First, what determines the pattern of trade? Second, what are the sources of any gains from trade, and how are these distributed among the trading partners? Third, what are the implications of trade for the structure of production and returns to factors within each trading country?
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 國際關係專業知能
  * B. 具備區域政經文社整合知識
  * C. 研究思辨能力
  * D. 具備反思與克服變遷能力
  * E. 語言運用能力
  * F. 國際運籌帷幄能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course aims to provide an analytical tool to answer the three questions raised in the course outline above. Intellectually, the theory of the composition of trade is the major application of general equilibrium theory, while trade policy analysis exploits both general and partial equilibrium modes of thoughts. This course is intended not only to point out the issues and techniques involved, but also communicate to the students some of the intellectual excitement that they can generate. After the course taking we expect the students would be able to grasp the quintessence of the current US-China trade dispute and be equipped with the sufficient knowledge and analytical tool to examine how the plausible deterioration of international trade relationship in the future might affect our economy and explore the best trade policy to dampen any adverse impact.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
18週18 weeks | 無彈性補充教學週No flexible supplemental instruction week  
  1. _Microeconomic Foundation of the Theory_
1st week: Introduction
2nd week: Supply, Demand and welfare
3rd week: General Equilibrium and Gains from Trade
  2. _Positive Theory of Trade: Cause and Consequences of Trade_
4th week: Causes of International Trade and Comparative Advantage Principle
5th week: The Heckscher-Ohlin Model
6th week: Government Policies as Determinants of Trade
7th week: Imperfect Competition and Increasing Returns to Scale
8th week: Tastes, Income, and Technological Changes as Determinant of Trade
9th week: Mid-term Exam
  3. _Trade Policy_
10th week: Tariffs, Quotas and Other Nontariff Barriers
11th week: Strategic Trade Policy
12th week: Preferential Trade Areas
13th week: Administered Protection
  4. _Factor Trade, Growth, and the Theory of Direct Foreign Investment_
14th week: Trade in Factors of Productions
15th week: Direct Foreign Investment and Multinational Firms
16th week: Factor Accumulation and Intertemporal Trade
17th week: WTO and Trade Reform
18th week: Final Exam
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.