國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：俄羅斯外交政策
#####  Course Name: Russian Foreign Policy
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：203801001 Course No.203801001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外交三、外交四 Course Department:Diplomacy/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：林永芳 Instructor: LIN YUNG-FANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三678 Session: wed15-18 
##  課程簡介Course Description
Three decades after the collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia has been searching for its own identity in a changing world, and the nature and practice of Russian foreign policy have been through tremendous transformation. In light of Russia’s revival and the return of great power politics, Russia’s foreign policy has shifted from a defensive position to a more assertive direction, as indicated by the war with Georgia in August 2008, the annexation of Crimea in 2014, and the military intervention in Syrian war in 2015. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in 2022 has revealed the securitization and expansion of Russian identity, fundamentally transforming from a reactive status quo power to a proactive revisionist power.
The course explores the continuity and change of Russia’s foreign policy under Vladimir Putin.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 國際關係專業知能
  * B. 具備區域政經文社整合知識
  * C. 研究思辨能力
  * D. 具備反思與克服變遷能力
  * E. 語言運用能力
  * F. 國際運籌帷幄能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The course aims to address the following questions: 
What is Russia’s role in the present world order? 
What are the explanations of Russia’s international behavior? 
What are the conditions that shape Russian foreign policy? 
What will the impact of the Russo-Ukrainian war be on international relations in general? And more specifically on Russia's foreign, defense and security policies?
Students are introduced to contending perspectives on the main issues of Russian foreign policy from theoretical and area points of view.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
|  週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 |  Course Introduction |  The weekly topic is assigned with two articles (journal articles or book chapters).  For a detailed syllabus, please see the course attachment. |  Twice a semester, students must prepare a ten-minute oral presentation, based on one of the assigned articles of their choice. |  3 |  0  
2 |  Tsarist and Soviet Foreign Policy  | 
  * Robert H. Donaldson, Joseph L. Nogee, and Vidya Nadkarni, _The Foreign Policy of Russia: Changing Systems, Enduring Interests_ , 5th ed. (Armonk, NY: M. E. Sharpe, 2014), ch. 2.
  * Donaldson, Nogee, and Nadkarni, _The Foreign Policy of Russia_ , 5th ed., chs. 3-4. 
|  Discussion/Lecture/Presentation/Reading |  3 |  6  
3 |  The Sources and Making of Russian Foreign Policy | 
  * Donaldson, Nogee, and Nadkarni, _The Foreign Policy of Russia_ , 5th ed., ch. 5.
  * Michael McFaul, “Putin, Putinism, and the Domestic Determinants of Russian Foreign Policy,” _International Security_ , Vol. 45, No. 2 (Fall 2020), pp. 95-139.
|  Discussion/Lecture/Presentation/Reading |  3 |  6  
4 |  Greater Eurasia and Eurasian Regionalism | 
  * Elias Gotz, “Taking the Longer View: A Neoclassical Realist Account of Russia’s Neighbourhood Policy,” _Europe-Asia Studies_ , Vol. 74, No. 9 (Nov. 2022), pp. 1729-1763.
  * Alexander Libman, “Does Integration Rhetoric Help? Eurasian Regionalism and the Rhetorical Dissonance of Russian Elites,” _Europe-Asia Studies_ , Vol. 74, No. 9 (Nov. 2022), pp. 1574-1595.
|  Discussion/Lecture/Presentation/Reading |  3 |  6  
5 |  The Social Construction of Russia’s Resurgence | 
  * Andrei P. Tsygankov,_Russia’s Foreign Policy: Change and Continuity in National Identity_ , 4th ed. (Lanham: Rowman & Littlefield, 2016), ch. 1.
  * Deborah Welch Larson, “Russia Says No: Power, Status, and Emotions in Foreign Policy,” _Communist and Post-Communist Studies_ 47 (2014), pp. 269-279.
|  Discussion/Lecture/Presentation/Reading |  3 |  6  
6 |  Russian Public Diplomacy and Sharp Power | 
  * Ignat Vershinin, “The Role of Discursive Practices in Public Diplomacy and International Relations: The Case of Russia-Japan Relations,” _Europe-Asia Studies_ , Vol. 75, No. 9 (Nov. 2023), pp. 1560-1578. 
  * Serhii Orlov and Olha Ivasechko, “Russia’s Sharp Power: Tools and Practices of Implementation,” Russian Politics 9 (2024), pp. 257-288.
|  |  3 |  6  
7 |  Intercollegiate Activities |  (No Class)  |  |  0 |  0  
8 |  Hybrid Warfare | 
  * Aiden Hoyle and Josef Slerka, “Causes for Concern: The Continuing Success and Impact of Kremlin Disinformation Campaigns,” Hybrid CoE Working Paper 29 (March 2024), https://www.hybridcoe.fi
  * Henrik Praks, “Russia’s Hybrid Threat Tactics against the Baltic Sea Region: from Disinformation to Sabotage,” Hybrid CoE Working Paper 32 (May 2024), https://www.hybridcoe.fi
|  Discussion/Lecture/Presentation/Reading |  3 |  6  
9 |  The Causes of Russia-Ukraine War | 
  * Elias Gotz and Per Ekman, “Russia’s War against Ukraine: Context, Causes, and Consequences,” _Problems of Post-Communism_ , Vol. 71, No. 3 (2024), pp. 193-205.
  * Andrei P. Tsygankov and Eva M. Parker-Bulgakova, “Coercive Diplomacy Gone Wrong: Interactive Leader Psychology and Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine,” Russian Politics 9 (2024), pp. 342-365.
|  Discussion/Lecture/Presentation/Reading |  3 |  6  
10 |  Critical Review on Russia-Ukraine War Analysis | 
  * Mikhail Polianskii, “Russian Foreign Policy Research and War in Ukraine: Old Answers to New Questions?” _Communist and Post-Communist Studies_ , Vol. 57, No. 2 (2024), pp. 156-172. 
  * Eliot A. Cohen and Philips O’Brien, “The Russia-Ukraine War: A Study in Analytical Failure,” CSIS Report (Sept. 2024), https://www.csis.org 
|  Discussion/Lecture/Presentation/Reading |  3 |  6  
11 |  Russian War Strategy and Military Capabilities | 
  * Marat Lliyasov and Yoshiko M. Herrera, “Russia’s War Strategy: What Chechnya Suggests for Ukraine,” _Post-Soviet Affairs_ , Vol. 40, No. 5 (2024), pp. 383-400.
  * Bettina Renz, “Western Estimates of Russian Military Capabilities and the Invasion of Ukraine,” _Problems of Post-Communism_ , Vol. 71, No. 3 (2024), pp. 219-231.
|  Discussion/Lecture/Presentation/Reading |  3 |  6  
12 |  Nuclear Deterrence | 
  * Keir Giles, “Russian Nuclear Intimidation: How Russia Uses Nuclear Threats to Shape Western Responses to Aggression,” Research Paper (March 2023), Chatham House, The Royal Institute of International Affairs, https://www.chathamhouse.org
  * Matthew Evangelista, “A ‘Nuclear Umbrella’ for Ukraine? Precedents and Possibilities for Postwar European Security,” _International Security_ , Vol. 48, No. 3 (Winter 2023/2024), pp. 7-50.
|  |  3 |  6  
13 |  Russia and the United States, and China | 
  * Angela Stent, “Trump’s Russia Legacy and Biden’s Response,” _Survival_ , Vol. 63, No. 4 (August-September 2021), pp. 55-80.
  * Igor Denisov and Alexander Lukin, “Russia’s China Policy: Growing Asymmetries and Hedging Options,” _Russian Politics_ 6 (2021), pp. 531-550.
|  Discussion/Lecture/Presentation/Reading |  3 |  6  
14 |  University Anniversary and Athletic Contests |  (No Class) |  |  0 |  0  
15 |  Russia and India, and the Global South | 
  * Spenser A. Warren and Sumit Ganguly, “India-Russia Relations after Ukraine,” _Asian Survey_ , Vol. 62, Nos. 5-6 (2022), pp. 811-837.
  * Karel Svoboda, “Russia’s Loans as a Means of Geoeconomic Competition in Africa and Latin America,” _Problems of Post-Communism_ , Vol. 71, No. 2 (2024), pp. 156-166.
|  Discussion/Lecture/Presentation/Reading |  3 |  6  
16 |  Russia and Turkey, and Iran | 
  * Seckin Kostem, “Managed Regional Rivalry Between Russia and Turkey After the Annexation of Crimea,” _Europe-Asia Studies_ , Vol. 74, No. 9 (Nov. 2022), pp. 1657-1675.
  * Ali Omidi, “Russian-Iranian Ties: Strategic Alliance, Strategic Coalition, or Strategic Alignment (Partnership),” _Russian Politics_ 7 (2022), pp. 341-365.
|  |  3 |  6  
17&18 |  Flexible Learning |  No reading assignments |  Independent research on final paper; One-on-One meeting by appointment |  0 |  0  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.