國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：公共管理及永續發展
#####  Course Name: Public Management and Sustainability
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：206785001 Course No.206785001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：公行三、公行四 Course Department:Public Administration/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：謝文琪 Instructor: SHIE WEN-CHI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to introduce students to the theory and practice of public administration and governance. In this course, you will learn about the foundations of public administration and public sector ethics, probe historical and contemporary questions concerning the field, and analyze practical and ethical challenges facing public administrators. This course covers the essential elements of public administration and governance. Students will be expected to demonstrate their understanding of the ideas presented in the course and apply their knowledge to critically evaluate the decisions of public administrators and governmental actors from an ethical perspective. 
*First Day Attendance and regular participation are required.
*This course is highly participatory, integrative, and collaborative. All the assignments are designed to guide students to build critical thinking, problem identification, and problem-solving skills.
*This syllabus is a guide for the course and is subject to change with advance notice. Please pay attention to the newest course announcements, email notifications, and Moodle for updated course materials.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 公共行政與政策的基礎理論Basic theories of public administration and policy
  * B. 公共行政與政策的管理知能Management knowledge for public administration and policy
  * C. 公共事務關懷與價值Concern and values for public affairs
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
After completing this course, students will be able to:
  * Identify and understand the core concepts of public administration and governance; 
  * Critically evaluate the ethical dimensions of administrative decisions;
  * Understand the role of public administrators and governance in contemporary society;
  * Familiarize yourself with different management functions of the government;
  * Learn how public administration and governance have evolved from historical roots to contemporary manifestations of ethically engaged and socially responsible citizens;
  * Apply the core concepts of public administration and governance to analyze social problems critically and collaboratively and develop innovative solutions.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Week |  Date |  Topic and Content  
---|---|---  
1 |  02/21 |  Course Introduction and Introduction to the SDGs  
2 |  02/28 |  National Holiday. No classes. University closed.   
3 |  03/07 |  Introduction to Public Administration, Politics, and Public Ethics
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie and Guest Lecturer
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources
4 |  03/14 |  Seminar 1: Organizational Theory and Contemporary Ethical Issues in the Workplace
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie and Guest Lecturer
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources
5 |  03/21 |  Seminar 2: Public Decision Making
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie and Guest Lecturer
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources
6 |  03/28 |  Seminar 3: Public Budgeting
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie with Guest Lecturer and Discussant
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments
03/29 |  Workshop: Public Management and Governance in a Competitive World Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie (Host) with Co-Hosts
  * International Scholar Forum: Public Governance in Global Context ,Guest Speakers
  * Interactive Event (Budget Simulation), Guest Mentor
  * Student Presentations (Inter-University Presentations)
  * Educational Video Viewing, Discussion, and Refreshment
7 |  04/04 |  National Holiday. No classes. University closed.  
8 |  04/11 |  Seminar 4: Human Resource Management in the Public Sector
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie and Guest Lecturer
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources
9 |  04/18 |  Seminar 5: Collaborative Governance and Network Management
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie and Guest Lecturer
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources
10 |  04/25 |  Seminar 6: Public Management Ethics and Technological Change
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie and Guest Lecturer
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments
11 |  05/02 |  Field Trip: Leadership in the Public Sector _(Office of the President, Taiwan)_  
12 |  05/09 |  Seminar 7: Leadership in the Public Sector
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie with Guest Lecturer
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments
13 |  05/16 |  Seminar 8: Citizen Participation and Social Equity
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie with Guest Lecturer
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments
14 |  05/23 |  Final Presentation Consultation  
15 |  05/30 |  National Holiday. No classes. University closed.   
16 |  06/06 |  Final Presentation with Q &A
  * Peer Feedback and Feedback from Dr. WenChi Shie and Guest Lecturers
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments
17 |  06/13 |  Completion of Designated After-Course Assignment or Work  
18 |  06/20 |  Completion of Designated After-Course Assignment or Work  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.