國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：空間資料模型
#####  Course Name: Spatial Modeling
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：207093001 Course No.207093001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：地二土測 Course Department:Land Economics/B/2 
  * 授課老師：范噶色 Instructor: STEPHAN VAN GASSELT 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一78E Session: mon16-19
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course deals with building, managing, and querying spatial models of real-world topics using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and database systems.
Spatial Models are simplified abstractions of the real world and objects and processes therein. They do not try to depict the whole world at once with all its details but rather attempt to re-create a part of it, hence the concept of a "mini-world" was coined. This simplification and reduction of complexity allows us to model objects, interactions, and relationships, and to manage, analyze, and visualize related processes. This can be a very simple model like hydrants in a residential neighborhood, but it can also be extremely complex, like a land management system of a country. 
What might sound quite abstract is no more than the description and the methods to make components of the real world easier to understand and manage using state-of-the-art information system technology to draw conclusions and make decisions.
The tools for spatial modeling are geographic information systems and databases. The design of the database which stores and relates data is pivotal to the effectiveness and efficiency of the spatial model.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備地政相關專業知能
  * B. 具備地政相關實務應用與創新之能力
  * C. 具備領導與團隊合作並進之精神與國際觀
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course introduces databases, spatial databases, and modeling complex settings by abstraction and simplification using GIS. The course starts assuming that attendees have no prior knowledge of databases, how they work, and how they are set up.
At the end of the semester, students will be able to set up their spatial model project with relations, correct relationships, and database structure. They have worked on several different database designs and learned how to ingest data, manage, update, and query their databases.
The theoretical background on databases covered in this course also applies to a wide range of non-spatial databases, such as MS Access or MySQL.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
The course takes place on Monday afternoons and is open to all students. The main teaching language and all material (including software locales) are in English.
This course explicitly welcomes students from other study fields, as the concepts of modeling and databases are not exclusively related to geomatics.
Topic | Contents | Teaching | Class | Homework |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Introduction | Basics of Spatial Modeling | 3 Hybrid Lab Lectures | 3 | 2 |   
Introduction | Basics of Spatial Modeling | 3 Hybrid Lab Lectures | 3 | 2 |   
Databases | Foundations of Relational Database | 3 Hybrid Lab Lectures | 3 | 2 |   
Databases | Foundations of Relational Database | 3 Hybrid Lab Lectures | 3 | 2 |   
Databases | Foundations of Relational Database | 3 Hybrid Lab Lectures | 3 | 2 |   
Databases | Spatial Databases | 3 Hybrid Lab Lectures | 3 | 2 |   
Databases | Spatial Databases | 3 Hybrid Lab Lectures | 3 | 2 |   
Databases | Spatial Databases | 3 Hybrid Lab Lectures | 3 | 2 |   
| Mid-Term Exam (Theory) |  |  |  |   
Modeling | Database Installation | 3 Hybrid Lab Lectures | 3 | 2 |   
Modeling | Spatial Model Design | 3 Hybrid Lab Lectures | 3 | 2 |   
Modeling | Spatial Model Design | 3 Hybrid Lab Lectures | 3 | 2 |   
Modeling | Spatial Model Design | 3 Hybrid Lab Lectures | 3 | 2 |   
Modeling | Spatial Model Design | 3 Hybrid Lab Lectures | 3 | 2 |   
Modeling | Documenting Spatial Models | 3 Hybrid Lab Lectures | 3 | 2 |   
Modeling | Designing a Modeling Project | 3 Hybrid Lab Lectures | 3 | 2 |   
Project | Completion of a larger CAD project | Project Work |  |  |   
Project | Completion of a larger CAD project | Project Work |  |  |   
####  其他： Others: Hands-on exercises 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.