國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：政治經濟學
#####  Course Name: Seminar on Political Economy
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：253052001 Course No.253052001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外交博一 Course Department:Diplomacy/D/1 
  * 授課老師：鄧中堅 Instructor: TENG CHUNG-CHIAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五8EF Session: fri17-20
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course offers an in-depth examination and discourse of political economic study in the international and global context. We would discuss the interaction between the state of the government on the one hand and the market or the price mechanism on the other, in addition to important global issues. The focus is on both theories and practices.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 國際關係專業知能
  * B. 具備區域政經文社整合知識
  * C. 研究辨思能力
  * D. 具備反思與克服變遷能力
  * E. 國際運籌帷幄能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The objectives of this course are to introduce students to core readings in the field of international political economy, including international trade, international investment, international finance, international development and regional integration and, more important, the analysis and discussion is on the interactions between the state and the market in terms of theory and practices.
The course is expected to equip students with the knowledge about (1) globalization & governance; (2) major issues of international trade; (3) the development of regional integration, particularly in East Asia and Western Hemisphere; (4) the difference between the North and the South on international development. Of course, to encourage them think and write critically are the basic training and requirements.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
SESSION ONE ---Introduction: What is International Political Economy? 02/19
Required Reading:
Gilpin, Robert.  _Global Political Economy, Ch. 1, 2_
SESSION TWO --- Major Theories of International Political Economy 02/26
Required Reading: 
Gilpin, Robert.  _The Political Economy of International Relations, Ch. 2_
SESSION THREE --- Major Theories of International Political Economy 03/05
Required Reading: 
Gilpin, Robert.  _Global Political Economy, Ch. 3, 4_
SESSION FOUR --- Major Theories of International Political Economy 03/12
Required Reading:
Gilpin, Robert.  _Global Political Economy, Ch. 3, 4_
SESSION FIVE --- Competing Paradigms of Economic Development 03/19
Required Reading:
Gereffi, “Paths of Industrialization,” ; Bradford, Jr., “Policy Interventions and Markets,” in _Manufacturing Miracles: Paths of Industrialization in Latin America and East Asia_
SESSION SIX --- Taiwan and South Korea 03/26
Required Reading:
Sung Gul Hong, "Theoretical Debates on the East Asian Miracle," and "Why Differ? Taiwan and South Korea" in _The Political Economy of Industrial Policy in East Asia_
Chung-Chian Teng, "Taiwan’s Economic Development: A Test of Mercantilistic Model," in _The_ _Annals_ _of_ _Chinese_ _Association_ _of_ _Political_ _Science_
Tun-jen Cheng, “Political Regimes and Development Strategies: South Korea and Taiwan _,”_ in _ Manufacturing Miracles: Paths of Industrialization in Latin America and East Asia _
SESSION SEVEN --- Intercollegiate Activities (no Class) 04/02
SESSION EIGHT --- State and Development 04/09
Required Reading:
Peter Evans,  _Embedded Autonomy_ , Ch. 1, 3,4, 10.
Nora Hamilton, The Limits of State Autonomy, pp. 4-15.
SESSION NINE --- Domestic Institutions & Development 04/16
Required Reading:
Linda Weiss, “Introduction: bringing domestic institutions back in,” in  _States in the Global Economy_.
Tianbiao Zhu, “Building institutional capacity for China’s new economic opening,”, in  _States in the Global Economy_.
David Levi-Faur, “New regimes, new capacities: the politics of telecommunications nationalization and liberalisation,” in  _States in the Global Economy_.
Meredith Woo-Cumings, “Diverse paths towards ‘the right institutions’: law, the state, and economic reform in East Asia,” in  _States in the Global Economy_.
SESSION TEN --- Developmental State 04/23
Required Reading:
Mark Beeson, “ The Rise and Fall of the Developmental state,”
Christopher M. Dent, “the New International Political economy of East Asia and the Developmental State,”
Yin-wah Chu, “The Asian Developmental State: Ideas and Debates,”
SESSION ELEVEN --- The Political Economy of International Free Trade 04/30
Required Reading:
Stephan Hagaard, “Theory: The Political Economy of Growth,” in  _Pathways from the Periphery_
Michael Fowler, "The Liberal International Order After World War II," in _The Political Logic of the US-China Trade War_
SESSION TWELVE --- International Trade: U.S. vs China I 05/07 
Required Reading:
Hua, Shiping, "The Global Context and Personality Politics of the Trade War,"_in The Political Logic of the US-China Trade War_
Steve Hess, “Institutional Adaptation and Regime Resilience under Xi Jinping, “ _in The Political Logic of the US-China Trade War_
Negeow Chow Bing, “Great Power Diplomayc with Chinese Characteristics and US-China Trade War,” _in The Political Logic of the US-China Trade War_
SESSION THIRTEEN --- International Trade: U.S. vs China II 05/14
Required Reading:
Sutter, Robert. "US Domestic Politics and the US-China Trade War,"in _The Political Logic of the US-China Trade War_
Teng, Chung-Chian and Yeh-Chung Lu, "The Impact of US domestic Politics on the Trade War," in _The Political Logic of the US-China Trade War_
SESSION FOURTEEN --- University Athletic Contests (no class) 05/21 
SESSION FIFTEEN --- Regionalism in Latin America (I) 05/28
Required Reading:
Gardini,  _The Origins of MERCOSUR_ , Ch. 4, Ch. 5, Ch. 6 & Conclusion.
SESSION SIXTEEN --- Regionalism in Latin America (II) 06/04
Required Reading:
Paul Kellogg, “Regional Integration in Latin America: Dawn of an Alternative to Neoliberalism?”  _New Political Science_ , 29:2 (June 2007), 187-209.
Gomez-Mera,  _Power and Regionalism in Latin America: The Politics of MERCOSUR_ , Ch. Two & Eight. 
SESSION SEVENTEEN --- Final Review of International Political Economy 06/11
SESSION EIGHTEEN --- Review of the Final Term Paper 06/18 
####  其他： Others: individual or group presentation 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.