國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：區域研究—南亞國際關係
#####  Course Name: International Relations in South Asia
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：253055001 Course No.253055001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外交碩一、外交碩二 Course Department:Diplomacy/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：陳秉逵 Instructor: CHEN PING-KUEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五D56 Session: fri13-16 
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course covers important political and economic topics in modern South Asia. The course begins with precolonial history and post-colonial state-building. It generally includes Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. The course will begin with the modern history of South Asia. It follows by the discussion on the political institutions, domestic political struggles, governance problems, and foreign policy, and regional cooperation of the South Asia states. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 國際關係專業知能
  * B. 區域政經文社整合知識
  * C. 研究思辨能力
  * D. 反思與克服變遷能力
  * E. 國際運籌帷幄能立
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  1. Understand history, religion, and culture of South Asia 
  2. Explore the relations between South Asia states in post-Cold War era
  3. Examine the foreign relations and major diplomatic policies of South Asian countries.
  4. Understand conflict and peace in the South Asia region 
  5. Learn about the relationships between South Asia states and great powers
  6. Explore key public issues in South Asian countries.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Assignment and requirement
  * Attendance: Students are expected to participate in class and contribute in discussion. A seminar class will not work without participant. If you are unable to attend the class, please register on the university’s system and upload a valid note for absence. 
  * For undergraduate students:
  * _Country brief_ : Each student will select a week to present the country brief. Starting from the week of modern South Asia, each week will have countries or topics. The student will share the latest political, economic, diplomatic, or foreign policy development of the countries/topics. The presentation takes 20-30 minutes in the beginning of the class. The purpose of this assignment is learning to pick up important subjects in a country or regional organization and present to fellow students. It is recommended that the student conducts a comprehensive research on recent events and then select important ones to share. 
  * _Midterm exam_ : a two-hours close-book exam. 
  * _Final analysis paper_ : Please select a topic concerning one or more South Asia countries (ex: women rights in Pakistan, India’s tech industry, the Rohingya refugee problem, hiking business in Nepal, Sri Lanka party competition). Write a policy analysis that could be published on a think tank website. The paper should be an analytical essay, not a news summary. Please provide your observation, analysis, and prediction of the issue. The paper should be within 2000 words (about 5 pages), times news roman, 12 fonts. 
  * For graduate students:
  * _Response paper_ : Each student will pick ONE week to write a response paper. The paper covers all the required readings of the that week. The response paper will have a summary of each reading and the students’ critique. The critique may include methodology, theoretical framework, argument, case selection…etc. Students are expected to demonstrate critical thinking and provide useful advises to the authors.
  * _Discussion leader_ : The student who write the response paper will also serve as the discussion leader that week. His/Her responsibility includes introducing the literature, provide questions, and coordinate discussion with fellow students. 
  * _Final paper_ : This is a short research proposal. The proposal should involve at least one South Asian countries. The research may address questions on international relations, social relations, economic development, gender, inequality, technological development…etc. The topic should be approved by the instructor by the midterm week. The final paper should include introduction, a short literature review, the argument, research method, and a discussion of expected finding. Please use 12 fonts, Time News Roman, single space
Course schedule
## Week 1 (2/21): introduction, decide discussion leaders, country briefs. Methodology in area studies
  1. Köllner, Patrick, Rudra Sil, Ariel I. Ahram, eds. 2018. “Comparative Area Studies: What It Is, What It Can Do.” In _Comparative Area Studies: Methodological Rationales and Cross-Regional Applications_ , Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/oso/9780190846374.003.0001.
  2. Zuckerman, Alan S. 2009. “Advancing Explanation in Comparative Politics: Social Mechanisms, Endogenous Processes, and Empirical Rigor.” In Mark Irving Lichbach and Alan Zuckerman, Eds. _Comparative Politics: Rationality, Culture, and Structure_. 2nd Ed. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
## Week 2 (2/28): holiday, no class
## Week 3 (3/7): classical and modern history of South Asia 【conference, class format TBA】
  1. Trautmann,_India: Brief History of a Civilization_ , Ch 2, 3, 4
  2. Amrith, Sunil S. 2015. _Crossing the Bay of Bengal: The Furies of Nature and the Fortunes of Migrants_. Reprint edition. Cambridge, Mass. London, England: Harvard University Press. Ch2 
  3. Mallik, Senjuti. 2024. “The British East India Company And The Great Bengal Famine Of 1770: Towards A Corporate Colonial Biopolitics.” _Geographical Review_ : 1–25. doi:10.1080/00167428.2024.2325977.
  4. Trautmann, _India: Brief History of a Civilization_ , CH 10 
Additional reference:
  1. A Concise History of Modern India CH2, CH3 
## Week 4 (3/14): Post-colonial South Asia
  1. Paul, T. V. 2010. _South Asia’s Weak States: Understanding the Regional Insecurity Predicament_. Ch3 & pp. 62-67 in Ch4 (state and nation building in South Asia)
  2. Richard Sisson and Leo E. Rose, _War and Secession: Pakistan, India, and the Creation of Bangladesh_ , ch4 “A Culture of Distrust”, ch11 “War: Pakistan”.
Additional reference:
  1. Metcalf, B. D., & Metcalf, T. R. (2012). A Concise History of Modern India, Ch6 Ch7
## Week 5 (3/21): enduring rivalry between India and Pakistan, Sino-India war,
## Regional organization brief [SAARC and BIMSTEC]
  1. Paul, T. V. 2006. “Why Has the India-Pakistan Rivalry Been so Enduring? Power Asymmetry and an Intractable Conflict.” _Security Studies_ 15(4): 600–630. doi:10.1080/09636410601184595.
  2. Ganguly, Rajat. 1998. “India, Pakistan and the Kashmir Dispute”. Asian Studies Institute & Centre for Strategic Studies
  3. Garver, John W. 2004. “India, China, the United States, Tibet, and the Origins of the 1962 War.” _India Review_ 3 (2): 171–82.
Additional resources:
  1. Why Kashmir means so much to both India and Pakistan https://edition.cnn.com/2016/09/30/asia/kashmir-explainer/index.htmlAmit R. Das Gupta and Lorenz M. Luthi ed., The Sino-Indian War of 1962, Ch1 “India’s relations with China, 1945-74”, Ch3 “From ‘Hindi-China Bhai-Bhai’ to international class struggle against Nehru: China’s India policy and the frontier dispute.
  2. Hagerty, Devin T. 2020. _Nuclear Weapons and Deterrence Stability in South Asia_. Cham: Springer International Publishing. doi:10.1007/978-3-030-21398-5. Ch4
  3. Khan, Zafar. “Balancing and Stabilizing South Asia: Challenges and Opportunities for Sustainable Peace and Stability.” _Intern_ _ational Journal of Conflict Management_ 30, no. 5 (January 1, 2019): 589–614. doi:10.1108/IJCMA-08-2018-0093.
  4. Paul Brass ed., Routledge Handbook of South Asian Politics, ch24 “The Militaries of South Asia”
  5. Paul, TV. 2019. “When Balance of Power Meets Globalization: China, India and the Small States of South Asia.” _Politics_ 39(1): 50–63. doi:10.1177/0263395718779930Kashmir profile Timeline, https://www.bbc.com/news/world-south-asia-16069078
## Week 6 (3/28): India foreign policy 
## country brief India’s non-alignment (strategic autonomy) foreign policy
  1. _South Asia's weak states_ , ch7: “Polity, Security and Foreign Policy in Contemporary India”
  2. Kampani, Gaurav. 2014. “New Delhi’s Long Nuclear Journey: How Secrecy and Institutional Roadblocks Delayed India’s Weaponization.” _International Security_ 38 (4): 79–114.
  3. Strating, Rebecca, and Alexander E. Davis. 2022. “Bordering the Postcolonial State: The Relevance of Sikkim in India’s Support for Indonesia’s Occupation of East Timor.” _Commonwealth & Comparative Politics_ 60(2): 169–89.
Additional resources:
  1. Mukherjee, Anit, George Perkovich, and Gaurav Kampani. 2015. “Correspondence: Secrecy, Civil-Military Relations, and India’s Nuclear Weapons Program.” _International Security_ 39(3): 202–14.
  2. Paul, T. V. 2024. _The Unfinished Quest: India’s Search for Major Power Status from Nehru to Modi_. Oxford University Press.
## Week 7 (4/4): holiday, no class
## Week 8 (4/11): India domestic problems 
## country brief: India’s economic and social inequality
  1. Paul Brass ed., Routledge Handbook of South Asian Politics, Ch15 “Politics of Language in India”
  2. Weiner, Myron. 1962. “The struggle for equality: caste in Indian politics” _Foreign Affairs_.
  3. Lele, Uma, and Sambuddha Goswami. 2020. “Agricultural Policy Reforms: Roles of Markets and States in China and India.” _Global Food Security_ 26: 100371. doi:10.1016/j.gfs.2020.100371.
Additional resources:
  1. Paul Brass ed., _Routledge Handbook of South Asian Politics_ , Ch22 “The Political Economy of Agrarian Change in India.”
## Week 9 (4/18): undergraduate: midterm | graduate: submit final paper abstract
## Week 10 (4/25): Pakistan
## country brief: Pakistan
  1. _South Asia's weak states_ , ch8, “Weak State, failed State, Garrison State: The Pakistan Saga.”
  2. Jacob N. Shapiro and C. Christine Fair, “Understanding Support for Islamist Militancy in Pakistan,” _International Security_ 34, no. 3 (January 1, 2010): 79–118, https://doi.org/10.1162/isec.2010.34.3.79.
## Week 11 (5/2): Bangladesh 
## country brief: Bangladesh
  1. South Asia's weak states, ch11, “A Weak State” with Multiple Security Challenges
  2. Mostofa, Shafi Md, and D. B. Subedi. 2021. “Rise of Competitive Authoritarianism in Bangladesh.” _Politics and Religion_ 14(3): 431–59. doi:10.1017/S1755048320000401.
  3. Pitt, Mark M., Shahidur R. Khandker, and Jennifer Cartwright. “Empowering Women with Micro Finance: Evidence from Bangladesh.” Economic Development and Cultural Change 54, no. 4 (July 2006): 791–831. doi:10.1086/503580.
Additional resources:
  1. William van Schendel, A History of Bangladesh, Ch11, 16
## Week 12 (5/9): Sri Lanka 
## country brief: Sri Lanka
  1. _South Asia's weak states_ , ch10, Challenges in State Consolidation and Minority Integration
  2. Subedi, DB. “The Emergence of Populist Nationalism and ‘Illiberal’ Peacebuilding in Sri Lanka.” _Asian Studies Review_ 46, no. 2 (April 3, 2022): 272–92. doi:10.1080/10357823.2021.1983519.
  3. Bhowmick, Soumya (2022)._Understanding the economic issues in Sri Lanka's current debacle_. New Delhi, India : ORF, Observer Research Foundation.
## Week 13 (5/16): Nepal, Bhutan
## country brief: Nepal, Bhutan
  1. _South Asia's weak states_ , ch12.Rebellion and State Formation in Nepal
  2. Kaul, Nitasha. 2022. “Beyond India and China: Bhutan as a Small State in International Relations.” _International Relations of the Asia-Pacific_ 22(2): 297–337. doi:10.1093/irap/lcab010.
  3. Paul, T.V. “When Balance of Power Meets Globalization: China, India and the Small States of South Asia.” Politics, June 6, 2018, 026339571877993. https://doi.org/10.1177/0263395718779930.
Additional resources:
  1. Bhutan The Mental State of the Happy Kingdom, The Diplomat 
  2. Davis, Alexander E., Ruth Gamble, Gerald Roche, and Lauren Gawne. 2021. “International Relations and the Himalaya: Connecting Ecologies, Cultures and Geopolitics.” _Australian Journal of International Affairs_ 75(1): 15–35. doi:10.1080/10357718.2020.1787333
## Week 14 (5/23): South Asia roundtable: India’s relations with neighbors. TBA 
## Week 15 (5/30): holiday, no class
## Week 16 (6/6): Student presentation on final papers
## Week 17 (6/13): Final paper due 
Additional recommended reading
## Mauritius, Seychelles 
  1. Gurjar, Sankalp. “Locating Indian Ocean Island States in India’s Foreign Policy.” Indian Foreign Affairs Journal 16, no. 1 (2021): 36–53.
  2. Behuria, Pritish. 2023. “The Political Economy of a Tax Haven: The Case of Mauritius.” _Review of International Political Economy_ 30(2): 772–800. doi:10.1080/09692290.2022.2069144.
  3. Hardy, Dennis. 2023. “Sovereignty and Seychelles: Borders and Boundaries in a Small Island State.” _Seychelles Research Journal_ 5(1). doi:10.5281/zenodo.10612917
## Week 18 (6/20) 
Additional recommended reading
## Maldives 
  1. Thakur, Harish K. “Contesting China in the Maldives: India’s Foreign Policy Challenge.” The Round Table 112, no. 4 (July 4, 2023): 421–37. doi:10.1080/00358533.2023.2244286.
  2. Mörner, Nils-Axel. “The Maldives: A Measure of Sea Level Changes and Sea Level Ethics.” In Evidence-Based Climate Science, 197–209. Elsevier, 2011. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-385956-3.10007-5
Additional resources:
  1. Transparency International, 2013, Assessment of Climate Finance: The Maldives National Adaptation Programme 
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.