國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：區域研究—拉丁美洲國際關係研究
#####  Course Name: Area Studies- International Relations of Latin America
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：253007001 Course No.253007001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外交碩一、外交博一、外交碩二、外交博二 Course Department:Diplomacy/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：馮慕文 Instructor: FONSECA FERNANDEZ FABRICIO ANTONIO 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course introduces graduate students to the particularities of the Latin America and Caribbean region, its historical evolution, and the main topics concerning the region’s international agenda. The goal of this course is to increase students’ understanding of the different concepts and ideas affecting the political and economic development of this region, as well as the most pressing topics that require the coordination of the different international actors, including both states and non-state actors. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHIJ雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 國際關係專業知能
  * B. 區域政經文社整合知識
  * C. 研究思辨能力
  * D. 反思與克服變遷能力
  * E. 國際運籌帷幄能立
  * F. 國際關係專業知能
  * G. 具備區域政經文社整合知識
  * H. 研究辨思能力
  * I. 具備反思與克服變遷能力
  * J. 國際運籌帷幄能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The course seeks to make students more familiar with Latin America, giving them tools to better analyze current developments in the region, and communicate more effectively with their counterparts from that part of the world in their time as practitioners.
This course aims to equip students with:
- A more cosmopolitan view of the world, and Latin America in particular;
- An increased sense of empathy and professionalism;
- Better knowledge in political theories and international relations.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week 1 (2/18): Course overview and introduction / The Iberian Conquest and the Colonial Fundamentals and Heritage
Susana Nuccetelli. 2020. “Setting the Scene: The Iberian Conquest” in _An Introduction to Latin American Philosophy_. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press (pp. 1-25).
Thomas E. Skidmore, Peter H. Smith and James N. Green. 2014. “The Colonial Foundations” in _Modern Latin America_ (8th Edition). New York: Oxford University Press - (Chapter 2, pp.16-44).
*Robert T. Buckman. 2014. “Conquest, Colonization, and the Challenge of Independence” in _Latin America_ (48th Edition – World Today Series). Lanham, MD: Stryker Post Publications (pp. 17-22).
*Charles W. Arnade, Arthur P. Whitaker and Bailey W. Diffie. 1960. “Causes of Spanish-American Wars of Independence,” Journal of Inter-American Studies, Vol. 2, No. 2 (Apr., 1960), pp. 125-144.
Week 2 (2/25):The Thrive for Sovereignty and Emancipation – Nation-building in Latin America
Susana Nuccetelli. 2020. “The Authoritarian Republicanism of Bolivar” in _An Introduction to Latin American Philosophy_. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press (pp. 26-53).
Susana Nuccetelli. 2020. “The Liberal Republicanism of Sarmiento and Alberdi” in _An Introduction to Latin American Philosophy_. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press (pp. 54-73).
* Miguel Angel Centeno. 1997. “Blood and Debt: War and Taxation in Nineteenth Century Latin America,” _American Journal of Sociology_ , Vol. 106, No. 6 (May 1997), pp. 1565-1605.
*Julia Gaffield. 2012. “Haiti and Jamaica in the Remaking of the Early Nineteenth-Century Atlantic World,” The William and Mary Quarterly, Vol. 69, No. 3 (July 2012), pp. 583-614.
Week 3 (3/4):Economic Liberalism, Positivism, and Anti-Positivism in 19 th century Latin America
Susana Nuccetelli. 2020. “Homegrown and Imported Positivism” in _An Introduction to Latin American Philosophy_. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press (pp. 94-130).
Susana Nuccetelli. 2020. “Marti’s Liberal Anti-Positivism” in _An Introduction to Latin American Philosophy_. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press (pp. 131-151).
* Arturo Ardao. 1963. “Assimilation and Transformation of Positivism in Latin America,” _Journal of the History of Ideas_ , Vol. 24, No. 4 (Oct.-Dec. 1963), pp. 515-522.
*Elías José Palti. 2009. “Beyond Revisionism: The Bicentennial of Independence, the Early Republican Experience, and Intellectual History in Latin America,” _Journal of the History of Ideas,_ Vol. 70, No. 4 (Oct., 2009), pp. 593-614.
Week 4 (3/11):Latin Americanism and Anti-Imperialism in the 20 th century
Susana Nuccetelli. 2020. “Utopian Latin Americanism: Arielism and _Mestizofilia_ ” in _An Introduction to Latin American Philosophy_. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press (pp. 152-172).
Gobat, Michel. 2013. “The Invention of Latin America: A Transnational History of Anti-Imperialism, Democracy, and Race,” _American Historical Review_ , Vol. 118, No. 5 (December 2013), pp. 1345-1375.
*Idelber Avelar. 1997. “Toward a Genealogy of Latin Americanism,” _Dispositio_ , Vol. 22, No. 49, pp. 121-133.
*Elizabeth Millan-Zibert. 2007. “A Great Vanishing Act?: The Latin American Philosophical Tradition and How Ariel and Caliban Helped Save It from Oblivion,” _CR: The New Centennial Review,_ Vol. 7, No. 3 (winter 2007), pp. 149-169.
Week 5(3/18):Revolution and Socialism in Latin America and the Caribbean
Alan Knight. 2001. “Democratic and Revolutionary Traditions in Latin America.” _Bulletin of Latin American Research,_ Vol. 20, No. 2 (Apr., 2001), pp. 147-186.
Susana Nuccetelli. 2020. “Soft and Hard Socialism” in _An Introduction to Latin American Philosophy_. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press (pp. 173-203).
*John Foran. 2009. “Theorizing the Cuban Revolution,” _Latin American Perspectives_
Vol. 36, No. 2, (Mar., 2009), pp. 16-30. 
*Erich Weede and Edward N. Muller, “Rebellion, Violence and Revolution: A Rational Choice Perspective,” in _Journal of Peace Research_ 35:1 (Jan. 1998), pp. 43-59.
Week 6 (3/25):Populism, Nationalism, and Dependency Theory in the making of Contemporary Latin America
James A. Caporaso. 1980. “Dependency Theory: Continuities and Discontinuities in Development Studies,” _International Organization_ , Vol. 34, No. 4, pp.605-628.
Kenneth M. Roberts. 2006. “Populism, Political Conflict, and Grass-Roots Organizations in Latin America,” _Comparative Politics_ , Vol. 38, No. 2, pp.127-148.
*Matthias Vom Hau. 2008. “State Infrastructural Power and Nationalism: Comparative Lessons from Mexico and Argentina,” _Studies in Comparative International Development_ , 43, article no. 334.
*Ramón Grosfoguel. 2000. “Developmentalism, Modernity, and Dependency Theory in Latin America,” _Nepantla: Views from the South_ , Vol. 1, No. 2, pp.347-374.
*Alan Knight. 1998. “Populism and Neo-Populism in Latin America, especially Mexico,” _Journal of Latin American Studies_ , Vol. 30, 223-248.
Week 7(4/1):Dictatorships, Insurgencies, and Religion: The Liberation Theology and the Catholic Church
Susana Nuccetelli. 2020. “Liberation Theory and Philosophy” in _An Introduction to Latin American Philosophy_. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press (pp. 204-230).
Ronaldo Munck. 1985. “The ‘Modern’ Military Dictatorship in Latin America: The Case of Argentina (1976-1982),” _Latin American Perspectives_ , Vol. 12, No.4, 41-74.
*Frederick M. Shepherd. 2021. “The Politics of the Catholic Church in Latin America” in _The Politics of Transnational Actors in Latin America_. New York: Routledge (pp.32-62).
*Carlo Edoardo Altamura. 2020. “Global Banks and Latin American Dictators, 1974-1982,” _Business History Review_ , 2020, 1-32.
Week 8 (4/6): Midterm Activity (TBA)
Week 9(4/15):Globalization, Neoliberalism, and Democratization in Post-Cold War Latin America and the Caribbean
Gregory B. Weeks. 2015. “Free Trade and Neoliberal Reform,” in _U.S. and Latin American Relations_ (2nd Ed.). West Sussex, UK: John Wiley & Sons (pp. 177-206).
Gregory B. Weeks. 2015. “Human Rights and Democracy,” in _U.S. and Latin American Relations_ (2nd Ed.) West Sussex, UK: John Wiley & Sons (pp.258-283).
*John Williamson. 2009. “A Short History of the Washington Consensus,” _Law and Business Review of the Americas_ , Vol 15, No. 7, 7-23.
*Giovanni Arrighi and Lu Zhang. “Beyond the Washington Consensus: A New Bandung?” in Jon Shefner and Patricia Fernandez-Kelley (editors), _Globalization and Beyond: New Examination of Global Powers and Its Alternatives_ , 1-48. Penn State University Press.
Week 10 (4/22):Post-Neoliberal Regional Integration and Rival Views on Latin America and the Caribbean
Gregory B. Weeks. 2015. “Challenges to U.S. Hegemony,” in _U.S. and Latin American Relations_ (2nd Ed.) West Sussex, UK: John Wiley & Sons (pp.207--231).
Thomas E. Skidmore, Peter H. Smith and James N. Green. 2014. “Latin America in the World Arena, 1990s-Present” in _Modern Latin America_ (8th Edition). New York: Oxford University Press - (Chapter 1, pp.460-486).
*Frederick M. Shepherd. 2021. “The Politics of Transnational Corporations in Latin America” in _The Politics of Transnational Actors in Latin America_. New York: Routledge (pp. 63-98).
*Javier Corrales and Carlos A. Romero. 2016. “U.S.-Venezuelan Relations after Hugo Chavez” in Jorge I. Domínguez and Rafael Fernández de Castro (eds.), _Contemporary U.S.-Latin America Relations: Cooperation or Conflict in the 21st Century?_ New York: Routledge (pp. 214-235).
Week 11 (4/29): National Security, the War on Drugs and Transnational Criminal Networks in the Region
Frederick M. Shepherd. 2021. “The Politics of Transnational Drug Networks in Latin America” in _The Politics of Transnational Actors in Latin America_. New York: Routledge (pp.99-126).
Durán-Martínez, Angélica. "Drugs Around the Corner: Domestic Drug Markets and Violence in Colombia and Mexico." Latin American Politics and Society 57, no. 3 (2015): 122-46.
Gustavo A. Flores-Macías. 2018. “The Consequences of Militarizing Anti-Drug Efforts for State Capacity in Latin America: Evidence from Mexico,” _Comparative Politics_ , Vol.51, No.1, pp.1-20.
*Gregory B. Weeks. 2015. “Drug Trafficking and Terrorism,” in _U.S. and Latin American Relations_ (2nd Ed.) West Sussex, UK: John Wiley & Sons (pp.258-283).
*Gema Santamaria. 2016. “Breaking the Vicious Cycle: Criminal Violence in U.S.—Latin American Relations” in Jorge I. Domínguez and Rafael Fernández de Castro (eds.), _Contemporary U.S.-Latin America Relations: Cooperation or Conflict in the 21st Century?_ New York: Routledge (pp.255-276).
*Hermes Ulises Prieto Mora. 2018. “Government advertising and the war on drugs: the narrative proposed by the Mexican Federal Government (2006-2012),” _Communication & Society_, Vol. 31, No, 1, 107-124.
Week 12 (5/6):Migration between Latin American and Caribbean countries, and to the United States
Allert Brown-Gort. 2016. “U.S. Immigration Policy: Politicization and Impasse,” in Jorge I. Domínguez and Rafael Fernández de Castro (eds.), _Contemporary U.S.-Latin America Relations: Cooperation or Conflict in the 21st Century?,_ New York: Routledge, (pp. 277-293).
Jonathan T. Hiskey. 2018. “Leaving the Devil You Know: Crime Victimization, US Deterrence Policy, and the Emigration Decision in Central America”, _Latin American Research Review_ , Vol. 53, No.3, pp. 429–447.
Michael J. Camilleri and Fen Osler Hampson. 2018. “No Strangers at the Gate: Collective Responsibility and a Region’s Response to the Venezuelan Refugee and Migration Crisis” in _The Dialogue_ - Centre for International Governance Innovation.
*Gregory B. Weeks. 2015. “Latin American Immigration and U.S. Policy,” in _U.S. and Latin American Relations_ (2nd Ed.), West Sussex, UK: John Wiley & Sons (pp.232-257).
*Myrtle Bell, et al (2014). “‘Diversity,’ immigration, and the new American multi-racial hierarchy,” in _Journal of Managerial Psychology_ , 29:3, 285-303.
Week 13(5/13):Cultural Developments and Soft Power in Latin America
Eduardo P. Archetti. 1998. “The Meaning of Sport in Anthropology: A View from Latin America,” _European Review of Latin American and Caribbean Studies,_ No. 65 (December 1998), pp. 91-103.
Rivas, Ronald M. and David Mayorga. 2011. "Internationalization of Peruvian Cuisine: An Analysis of Internationalization Strategies of Peruvian Restaurants,"  _Innovar: Revista De Ciencias Administrativas y Sociales_ , Vol. 21, No. 39, pp.205-16.
*Lamartine Pereira Dacosta. 2020. “In Search of the Olympic Games’ Future Significances: Contributions from Buenos Aires, Mexico City, and Rio de Janeiro,” in Antonio Sotomayor and Cesar R. Torres (editors), _Olimpismo: The Olympic Movement in the Making of Latin America and the Caribbean_ , Fayetteville: The University of Arkansas Press (pp.165-184).
*Mercedes Medina and Leticia Barron. 2011. “Latin American Telenovelas on a Global Scale,” _Journal of Spanish Language Media_ , No. 4, pp. 125-149.
Week 14 (5/20): [校際活動週/停課 No class]  
Week 15(5/27): Social Movements, Human Rights, and Feminism in Latin America and the Caribbean
Frederick M. Shepherd. 2021. “The Politics of Transnational Human Rights Networks in Latin America” in _The Politics of Transnational Actors in Latin America_. New York: Routledge (pp.127-157).
Susana Nuccetelli. 2020. “Modest and Immodest Feminism” in _An Introduction to Latin American Philosophy_. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press (pp. 26-53).
*Helen Icken Safa. 1990. “Women's Social Movements in Latin America,” Gender and Society, Vol. 4, No. 3, pp.354-369
*Kathryn Sinkkink and Carrie Booth Walling. 2007. “The Impact of Human Rights Trials in Latin America,” _Journal of Peace Research_ , Vol. 44, No. 4, pp.427-445.
Week 16 (6/3): Wrap-up and review of topics for final papers
Week 17 (6/10):Self-study session [selected cases of LAC countries foreign policy analysis]
Week 18 (6/17): Final paper deadline
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.