國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：非國家行為者與國際關係之研究 
#####  Course Name: Nonstate Actors in International Relations
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：253855001 Course No.253855001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外交碩一、外交博一、外交碩二、外交博二 Course Department:Diplomacy/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：陳秉逵 Instructor: CHEN PING-KUEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
授課語言為中文
Non-state Actors (NSA) are a force to be recognized and to be reconciled with in international affairs. This seminar will focus on the role, activity, and impact of non-state actors. This is a research oriented course with the aim to help students develop their research projects and professional knowledge regarding NSAs. We will examine the latest works in the field and critique their arguments as well as their methods.
Students are expected to learn and positively criticize major works in the field. The materials assigned in this course prepares graduate students for advanced research in international politics. The ideas, discussions, and debates in the classroom create opportunity for graduate students to develop interests in the subject, which may lead to a thesis/dissertation proposal.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHIJ雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 國際關係專業知能
  * B. 區域政經文社整合知識
  * C. 研究思辨能力
  * D. 反思與克服變遷能力
  * E. 國際運籌帷幄能立
  * F. 國際關係專業知能
  * G. 具備區域政經文社整合知識
  * H. 研究辨思能力
  * I. 具備反思與克服變遷能力
  * J. 國際運籌帷幄能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  * Understand the role of non-state actors in international affairs.
  * Explore how non-state actors operate.
  * Evaluate pioneer researches on non-state actors. 
  * Generate creative research projects.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
  * Response paper: Two papers on required readings for two weeks. Each takes 3-5 pages. Paper is due before the class. The response paper will include ONLY YOUR CRITUQE to the readings. (Times New Roman, double space, 12 font). Response paper is due at 10:00 PM a day before the class.
  * Presentation: students who write the response papers will lead the discussion in the class for that week. The discussion should begin with a summary of a required reading and follow by students’ response to that reading. The instructor will intervene and assist class discussion. 
  * Paper proposal: Each student will submit a 5-10 pages research proposal (single space, 12 font 新細明體) by the end of semester. Students are expected to present their proposal in the last few weeks of the semester and receive comments from their peers. The proposal will include a robust literature review and a feasible research design. Students will present their research proposals by the end of the semester. They will also conduct a peer review. 
## Weekly reading list (*recommended reading)
Week 1 (2/19): introduction: private authority
Büthe, Tim. “Governance through Private Authority? Non-State Actors in World Politics.” _Journal of International Affairs_ 58 (Fall 2004): 281-290. 
*Hall, Rodney Bruce and Thomas J. Biersteker. “The Emergence of Private Authority in the International System.” In _The Emergence of Private Authority in Global Governance_ , ed. Rodney Bruce Hall and Thomas J. Biersteker, 3-22. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2002.
## Week 2 (2/26): what are non-state actors?
Keck, Margaret, and Kathryn Sikkink. “Transnational Advocacy Networks in International Politics: Introduction.” In _Activists beyond Borders: Advocacy Networks in International Politics_ , 1-12. Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1998.
Chaudhry, Suparna. “The Assault on Civil Society: Explaining State Crackdown on NGOs.” _International Organization_ , February 2, 2022, 1–42. 
*Tarrow, Sidney. “Transnational Politics: Contention and Institutions in International Politics.” _Annual Review of Political Science_ 4 no. 1 (2001): 1-20.
*Thomas Risse, “Transnational Actors and World Politics,” _Handbook of International Relations_ Ch.17
*Noortmann, Math. “Transnational Actors and World Politics Non-State Actors in International Law.” In _Non-state Actors in International Relations_ , ed. Bas Arts, Math Noortmann, and Bob Reinalda, 59-78. Aldershot: Ashgate, 2001.
## Week 3 (3/4): NGO 
Cheng, Huimin, Ye Wang, Ping Ma, and Amanda Murdie. “Communities and Brokers: How the Transnational Advocacy Network Simultaneously Provides Social Power and Exacerbates Global Inequalities.” _International Studies Quarterly_ 65, no. 3 (7 2021): 724–38. 
Bush, Sarah Sunn, and Jennifer Hadden. 2019. “Density and Decline in the Founding of International NGOs in the United States.” _International Studies Quarterly_ 63(4): 1133–46.
*Keohane and Martin, “The Promise of Institutionalist Theory”. _International Security_. 20.1. 1995. pages 39-51. 
*Mearsheimer, John J.. “The False Promise of International Institutions.” _International Security_. 19, 3. (1994/95) pages 5-49.
*McNamara, Kathleen, “Constructing Authority in the European Union.” In Avant, Finnemore, and Sell, _Who Governs the Globe?,_ Chapter 6.
*Farid, May, and Hui Li. “International NGOs as Intermediaries in China’s ‘Going out’ Strategy.” _International Affairs_ 97, no. 6 (Spring 2021): 1945–62. https://doi.org/10.1093/ia/iiab183.
## Week 4 (3/11): global governance and accountability of non-state actors 
Collingwood, Vivien. “Non-Governmental Organisations, Power and Legitimacy in International Society.” _Review of International Studies_ 32, no. 3 (July 2006): 439–54.
Virginia Haufler, “Corporations in Zones of Conflict: Issues, Actors, and Institutions.” Chapter 4 in Avant, Finnemore, and Sell. 
*Finnemore, Martha. 2013. “Dynamics of Global Governance: Building on What We Know?”  
_International Studies Quarterly_.
*Keohane, Robert and Joseph S. Nye. Jr. “Redefining Accountability for Global Governance.” In _Governance in a global economy : political authority in transition_ by Lake and Kahler.
*Krasner, Stephen. “Power, Politics, Institutions, and Transnational Relations.” In _Bringing Transnational Relations Back In: Non-State Actors, Domestic Structures and International Institutions_. Edited by Thomas Risse-Kappen. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
*Louis Pauly, “Global Finance, Political Authority, and the Problem of Legitimation.” In Hall and Biersteker, Chapter 4.
*John Gerard Ruggie, “Reconstituting the Global Public Domain— Issues, Actors, and Practices,” _European Journal of International Relations_ 2004 Vol. 10(4): 499–531
*Kenneth Abbott and Duncan Snidal, “The Governance Triangle: Regulatory Standards Institutions and The Shadow of the State” in Walter Mattli and Ngaire Woods, _The politics of global regulation_
## Week 5 (3/18): Non-State Actors and Development
Simmons, Beth. 2001. The International Politics of Harmonization: The Case of Capital Market Regulation _. International Organization_ 55(3): 589-620. 
Nielson, Daniel L. and Michael J. Tierney. 2003. Delegation to International Organizations: Agency Theory and World Bank Environmental Reform. _International Organization_ 57(2): 241- 276.
*Pevehouse, Jon C. "Democracy from the Outside-In? International Organizations and Democratization." International Organization vol.56 no.3 (Summer 2002): 515-549.
*Pandya, Hinal. “Involuntary Displacement: An Analysis of the Role and Contribution of Non-Government Organizations to the Narmada Project Affected Communities in Western India.” _International NGO Journal_ 8, no. 2 (2013): 44–53.
*Chandhoke, Neera. “Has the Wheel Turned Full Circle?” _European Journal of Development Research_ 21, no. 1 (March 2009): 10–14. doi:10.1057/ejdr.2008.4.
## Week 6 (3/25): Multinational Corporations
Gunderson, James. “Multinational Corporations as Non-State Actors in the Human Rights Arena.” In _Non-State Actors in the Human Rights Universe_ , ed. George Andreopoulos, Zehra F. Kabasakal Arat, and Peter Juviler, 77-91. Bloomfield, CT: Kumarian, 2006.
Levy, David L., and Aseem Prakash. “Bargains Old and New: Multinational Corporations in Global Governance.” Business and Politics 5 (August 2003): 131-150.
*Sauvant, Karl P. “The Negotiations of the United Nations Code of Conduct on Transnational Corporations: Experience and Lessons Learned.” _The Journal of World Investment & Trade_ 16, no. 1 (January 3, 2015): 11–87. doi:10.1163/22119000-01601002.
*John Gerard Ruggie “Global Governance and ‘New Governance Theory’: Lessons from Business and Human Rights”. _Global Governance_ January-March 2014, Vol. 20, No. 1, pp. 5-17
## Week 7 (4/2): 校際活動週(停課)
## Week 8 (4/9): Non-State Actors and Environment
Keck and Sikkink. “Environmental Advocacy Networks” in Keck and Sikkink, 121-168.
Jennifer Hadden, “Explaining Variation in Transnational Climate Change Activism: The Role of Inter-Movement Spillover” _Global Environmental Politics_ 14:2, May 2014
Andresen, Steinar, and Tora Skodvin. “Non-State Influence in the International Whaling Commission, 1970 to 2006.” _In NGO Diplomacy: The Influence of Nongovernmental Organizations_ in _International Environmental Negotiations_ , ed. Michele Betsill, Elisabeth Corell, and Felix Dodds, 119-147. Cambridge: MIT Press, 2007.
*Cashore, Benjamin, Graeme Auld, Steven Bernstein, and Constance McDermott. “Can Nonstate Governance Ratchet Up Global Environmental Standards? Lessons from the Forest Sector.” _Review of European Community and International Environmental Law_ vol 16 (July 2007): 158-172.
## Week 9 (4/16): Non-State Actors and Human Rights 
Beth Simmons, “The Future of the Human Rights Movement,” _Ethics & International Affairs_, 28,2 2014 pp 183-196.
Landolt, Laura K., and Byungwon Woo. “NGOs Invite Attention: From the United Nations Commission on Human Rights to the Human Rights Council.” _Journal of Human Rights_ 16, no. 4 (October 2, 2017): 407–27. https://doi.org/10.1080/14754835.2016.1153411.
*Allison Danner and Erik Voeten. “Who is Running the International Criminal Justice System?” Chapter 2 in Avant, Finnemore and Sell.
*Srivastava, Swati. 2022. “Navigating NGO–Government Relations in Human Rights: New Archival Evidence from Amnesty International, 1961–1986.” _International Studies Quarterly_ 66(1): sqab009. doi:10.1093/isq/sqab009.
*Kelly Greenhill and Joshua Busby, “Ain’t That a Shame? Hypocrisy, Punishment, and Weak Actor Influence in International Politics,” in Richard Friman, ed. _The Politics of Leverage in International Relations: Name, Shame, and Sanction_
*Risse, Thomas. “The Power of Norms versus the Norms of Power: Transnational Civil Society and Human Rights.” _The Third Force: The Rise of Transnational Civil Society,_ 2000, 177–209.
*Meyer, William H. "Human Rights and MNCs: Theory versus Quantitative Analysis." _Human Rights Quarterly_ , vol.18 no.2 (May 1996): 368-397.
## Week 10 (4/23): Non-State Actors and Women's Rights
Charli R. Carpenter, "Women, Children and Other Vulnerable Groups": Gender, Strategic Frames and the Protection of Civilians as a Transnational Issue,” _International Studies Quarterly_ Vol. 49, No. 2 (Jun., 2005), pp. 295-334
Melanie Hughes, Mona Lena Krook, and Pamela Paxton. “Transnational Women’s Activism and the Global Diffusion of Gender Quotas” _International Studies Quarterly_ 2015
*Cloward, Karisa. “Elites, Exit Options, and Social Barriers to Norm Change: The Complex Case of Female Genital Mutilation,” _Studies in Comparative International Development_ (2015) 50:378–407
*True, Jacqui, and Michael Mintrom. “Transnational Networks and Policy Diffusion: The Case of Gender Mainstreaming.” International Studies Quarterly 45 (March 2001): 27-57.
## Week 11 (4/30): Faith-based NGOs
Ferris, Elizabeth. “Faith-Based and Secular Humanitarian Organizations.” _International Review of the Red Cross_ 87, no. 858 (2005): 311–25.
Berger, Julia. “Religious Nongovernmental Organizations: An Exploratory Analysis.” _Voluntas: International Journal of Voluntary and Nonprofit Organizations_ 14, no. 1 (March 2003): 15–39. https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1022988804887.
*Clarke, Matthew, and Vicki-Anne Ware. “Understanding Faith-Based Organizations: How FBOs Are Contrasted with NGOs in International Development Literature.” _Progress in Development Studies_ 15, no. 1 (January 1, 2015): 37–48. https://doi.org/10.1177/1464993414546979.
*Ryall, David “the Catholic Church as a Transnational Actor”, in Josselin, D., and W. Wallace. _Non-State Actors in World Politics_. 2001 edition. Houndmills, Basingstoke, Hampshire ; New York, N.Y: Palgrave Macmillan, 2002.
*Fountain, Philip. “The Myth of Religious NGOs: Development Studies and the Return of Religion.” In _International Development Policy: Religion and Development_ , edited by Gilles Carbonnier, Moncef Kartas, and Kalinga Tudor Silva, 9–30. International Development Policy. London: Palgrave Macmillan UK, 2013. https://doi.org/10.1057/9781137329387_2.
## Week 12 (5/7): Transnational Violence and Crime
Paulette Lloyd, Beth Simmons and Brandon Stewart, “Combating Transnational Crime: The Role of Learning and Norm Diffusion in the Current Rule of Law Wave,” in Michael Zurn, Andre Nolkaemper and Randy Peerenboom, eds. _Rule of Law Dynamics._
Shelley, Louise I. “Transnational Organized Crime: An Imminent Threat to the Nation-State?” _Journal of International Affairs_ 48 (Winter 1995): 463-489.
*Adamson, Fiona B. “Globalisation, Transnational Political Mobilisation, and Networks of Violence.” _Cambridge Review of International Affairs_ 18, no. 1 (Spring 2005): 31–49. https://doi.org/10.1080/09557570500059548.
*Salehyan, Idean. 2010. “The Delegation of War to Rebel Organizations.” _Journal of Conflict Resolution_ 54(3): 493-515. 
*Brysk, Alison. “Beyond Framing and Shaming: Human Trafficking, Human Security and Human Rights” _Journal of Human Security v5 n3 (2009): 8-21._
## Week 13 (5/14): Terrorism 
Ashworth, Scott, Joshua D. Clinton, Adam Meirowitz, and Kristopher W. Ramsey (2008) "Design, Inference, and the Strategic Logic of Suicide Terrorism." _American Political Science Review_ 102 (2): 269-73
Kydd, A. H., & Walter, B. F. (2006). The strategies of terrorism. _International Security_ , 31(1), 49–80.
*Byman, Dan and Sarah Kreps. 2010. “Agents of Destruction? Applying Principal-Agent Analysis to State Sponsorship of Terrorism.” International Studies Perspectives 11(1): 1-18
*Juergensmeyer, Mark. “The Global Dimension of Religious Terrorism.” In Hall and Biersteker, 141-57. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2002.
## Week 14 (5/21): Privatization of security and diplomacy
Singer, Peter W. “Corporate Warriors: The Rise of the Privatized Military Industry and Its Ramifications for International Security _.” International Security_ 26 (January 2001/2002): 186-220.
Haufler, Virginia. “International Diplomacy and the Privatization of Conflict Prevention. _International Studies Perspectives_ 5 (May 2004): 158-163. 
*Avant, Deborah D. “Pragmatic Networks and Transnational Governance of Private Military and Security Services.” _International Studies Quarterly_ 60, no. 2 (June 1, 2016): 330–42. doi:10.1093/isq/sqv018.
*Avant, Deborah. _The Market for Force The Consequences of Privatizing Security_ , Ch.1.
*Hannah Tonkin, _State Control over Private Military and Security Companies in Armed Conflict_ (Cambridge, U.K. ; New York: Cambridge University Press, 2011).
*Stanger, Allison and Mark Eric Williams. “Private Military Corporations: Benefits and Costs of Outsourcing Security _.” Yale Journal of International Affairs_. 2006.
*Muthien, Bernedette and Ian Taylor “The Return of the Dogs of War? The Privatization of Security in Africa” in _The Emergence of Private Authority in Global Governance_ , ed. Hall and Biersteker, Chapter 9.
## Week 15 (5/28): Think Tanks and their impact on policy making
Stone, Diane. “Global Public Policy, Transnational Policy Communities, and Their Networks.” _Policy Studies Journal_ 36 (2008): 19-38. 
Thunert, Martin, “Players beyond Borders? German Think Tanks as Catalysts of Internationalisation.” Global Society: Journal of Interdisciplinary International Relations 14 (April 2000): 191-211 
*Stone, Diane. “The Policy Roles of Private Research Institutes in Global Politics.” In Private Organisations in Global Politics, ed. Karsten Ronit and Volker Schneider, 187-207. London: Routledge, 2000.
## Week 16 (6/4): final paper presentation 
## Week 17 (6/11): no class
## Week 18 (6/18): no class, final paper due.
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.