國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：計量經濟學（二） 
#####  Course Name: Econometrics (II)
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：255039001 Course No.255039001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：財政博一、財政博二 Course Department:Public Finance/D/1&2 
  * 授課老師：連賢明 Instructor: LIEN HSIEN-MING 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is prepared for Master and Ph.D. students intending to conduct economics analysis using statistical tools (e.g. R, STATA). 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 財經專業與政策分析能力
  * B. 邏輯分析與獨立思考能力
  * C. 溝通寫作與論文發表能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
There are three purposes for this course. The first is to provide an introduction of National Health Insurance Data (NHID). The second is to provide an introduction of modern econometrics techniques on the cross-section and panel data, including difference-in-difference (DID), instrumental variable method (IV), Propensity Score Matching Method (PSM) and regression discontinuity method (RD). Finally, we show how these methods can be implemented using STATA (http://www.stata.com), a program for statistics, graphics, and data management
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
The first half of this course is to introduce NHID, and use STATA to select, clean, organize, and describe the data. The second part employs a research example to discusses some of modern techniques in the fields of micro-econometrics, including DID, IV and RD.
∙ Introduction of National Health Insurance Data  
- NHID sample file  
∙ Managing the data  
- Convert raw data into STATA format data  
- Describe the data  
- Groups and subgroups the data  
- Changing the data  
- Data cleaning  
- Summarize the data  
- Combine the data  
∙ Regression Analysis  
- Lien Hsien-Ming, Shin-Yi Chou, and Jin-Tan Liu (2008) "Hospital Ownership and Performance: Evidence from Stroke and Cardiac Treatment in Taiwan," Journal of Health Economics 27:5, pp. 1208-1223  
- Multiple Regression I (SW 6): Omitted variable bias, Multiple regression model.  
- Assessing Regression Studies (SW 9): Internal and external validity, Threats to internal validity.  
- Panel Data (SW 10): Fixed effects regression, Random effects regression.  
∙ Questions and Experiments  
- Experiments and Quasi-Experiments (SW 13):Quasi-experiments, Average treatment effect.  
- MHE, Chapters 1 and 2  
- DID (difference-in-difference) estimator.  
∙ Difference in Difference Estimator  
- NBER Summer Institute: Lecture Notes of Applied Econometrics on DID  
- MHE, Chapters 5 and 8  
∙ Instrumental Variables Method  
- Instrumental Variables Regression (SW 12): General IV regression model, Checking instrument validity, Where do IV come from?  
- Instrumental Variable Models with heterogeneous potential outcomes (MHE Chapters 4.4-4.5)  
- NBER Summer Institute: Lecture Notes of Applied Econometrics on Instrumental Variables with Treatment Effect Heterogeneity: Local Average Treatment Effects  
∙ Propensity Score Matching Method  
- Rubin, D. B., 1977, "Assignment to a Treatment Group on the Basis of a Covariate," Journal of Educational Statistics [1], Spring 1977 1-26.  
- Rubin, D. B., 1974, "Estimating Causal Effects of Treatments in Randomized and Nonrandomized Studies," Journal of Educational Psychology, 66, 688-701.  
- NBER Summer Institute: Lecture Notes of Applied Econometrics on Matching Estimator  
∙ Regression Discontinuity Method  
- MHE, Chapters 6  
- NBER Summer Institute: Lecture Notes of Regression Discontinuity Designs
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.