國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：租稅個案實習
#####  Course Name: Tax Cases and Policies
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：255834001 Course No.255834001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：財政碩一、財政碩二 Course Department:Public Finance/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：鍾騏 Instructor: CHUNG CHI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
Tax is an important aspect of modern society, but is sometimes not accurately understood. Given the strain caused on government revenue by the COVID-19 pandemic, governments around the world are seeking more tax revenue that satisfy the criteria of equity, efficiency and simplicity. On the other hand, from the perspective of taxpayers and the citizenry, distributional justice and procedural justice are legitimate and indispensable dimensions of the tax system.
This course seeks to introduce students to interesting tax cases and to lead students to think about the policies behind tax law and such cases. The cases are selected from the court judgments in the United States, Europe, and Taiwan on the basis of their significance for the contemporary world.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 財經專業與政策分析能力
  * B. 邏輯分析與獨立思考能力
  * C. 溝通與寫作能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  1. Students are expected to acquire knowledge of important tax rules, cases, and policies.
  2. Students will practice their English language skills, both in general and particularly in the field of tax.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
學期中如不得已需要調整部分課程時間，將提前宣布，並選擇多數同學便利的時間。
If it becomes necessary to move some sessions to another date, it will be announced beforehand and made convenient for most students.
週次 Week |  課程主題 Subjects |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Contents  |  教學活動與作業 Activities |  學習投入時數（課堂講授） Class Time |  學習投入時數（課程前後） Time spent on learning  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1  |  Introduction History and overview |  Materials offered by the instructor |  Lecture and after-class review of the class materials |  3 |  3  
2  |  No class on the Peace Memorial Day |  |  |  |   
3  |  Investigations, summons, and civil monetary fines |  U.S. v. Ali, U.S. District Court, D. Maryland, Southern Division (2020) |  |  3 |  3  
4  |  Information returns, the cap on penalty, and statutory interpretation |  Bittner v. United States, U.S. Supreme Court (2023) |  |  3 |  3  
5  |  State involvement in the economy (I): Tuition assistance for students who go to secondary schools owned or controlled by a church, sect, or other religious entity |  Carson v. Makin, U.S. Supreme Court (2022) |  |  3 |  3  
6  | State involvement in the economy (II): The legality of student loan forgiveness program  |  Biden v. Nebraska, U.S. Supreme Court (2023) |  |  3 |  3  
7  |  no class due to holiday |  |  |  |   
8  |  The means to pursue unpaid taxes and the people who owe them |  Polselli v. Internal Revenue Service, U.S. Supreme Court (2023) |  |  3 |  3  
9  |  Investigations, summons, and the grounds for challenging summons |  J.B. v. U.S., United States Court of Appeals, Ninth Circuit (2019) U.S. v. Beverly, United States District Court, C.D. California (2020) |  |  3 |  3  
10  |  Midterm Exam |  |  |  3 |  3  
11  |  Tax advisors' reporting obliations, and the rule that that “no  
suit for the purpose of restraining the assessment or collection of any  
tax shall be maintained in any court by any person.” |  CIC Services v. IRS, U.S. Supreme Court (2021) |  |  3 |  3  
12  |  Council Directive (EU) 2018/822 of 25 May 2018 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation in relation to reportable cross-border arrangements |  Belgian Association of Tax Lawyers et al. v. Premier, Case C-623/22, the Court of Justice of the EU (2024) |  |  3 |  3  
13  |  State aid cases in the Court of Justice of the EU |  European Commission v Ireland and Apple Sales International.  
Case C-465/20 (2024) |  |  3 |  3  
14  |  Equality and discrimination in the field of tax |  1. ROC (Taiwan) Judicial Yuan Interpretation No. 745 (2017) (a case relating to income tax) 2. IBM v. U.S., U.S. Court of Claims (1965) (a case relating to excise tax) |  |  3 |  3  
15 |  No class due to holiday |  |  |  |   
16  |  Final exam |  |  |  |   
17 |  Independent study by students |  |  |  |   
18 |  Independent study by students |  |  |  |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.