國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：地方財政 
#####  Course Name: Local Public Finance
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：255915001 Course No.255915001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：財政碩一、財政碩二 Course Department:Public Finance/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：傅健豪 Instructor: FU CHIEN-HAO 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一D56 Session: mon13-16 
##  課程簡介Course Description
Local governments are facing increasingly challenging and complex issues such as economic uncertainty, public health management, and civil unrest. Successful leadership and policy planning thus require a competent understanding of local public finance and keen perspectives on important policy issues at the local level.
In this course, we will assess the roles of state and local governments in providing public goods, their revenue and expenditure choices, and the equity and efficiency implications of these choices. In addition to developing theoretical perspectives in analyzing state and local public finance, we will also discuss the empirical tools commonly used in the literature.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 財經專業與政策分析能力
  * B. 邏輯分析與獨立思考能力
  * C. 溝通與寫作能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
In this course, we will cover the key topics and theoretical frameworks in local public finance. Students will be introduced to important theories and empirical studies in the literature and develop an understanding of the modern challenges faced by state and local governments.
Students will also acquire experience and knowledge in data sources and tools that are commonly used to describe and analyze local public policies. They will be encouraged to seek additional sources of information and explore pertinent research topics such as school funding, health care, economic development, environmental protection, and other important issues of local governance.
The main subjects to be covered in this course include the following items:
  1. The development of fiscal federalism.
  2. Analysis of expenditure and revenue decisions and intergovernmental grants.
  3. The stabilizing and distributional implications of state and local public finances.
  4. Modern state-local fiscal problems.
  5. Data and methodology for empirical analysis of local public finance
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
We plan to cover the following topics in the listed order, but the teaching schedule is subject to change based on the needs of the class.
_Week_ |  _Topics_  
---|---  
_1_ |  Motivation and Introduction to Local Public Finance  
_2_ |  Role of State and Local Governments in the Economy  
_3_ |  Demand for Local Public Goods  
_4_ |  Public Choice withou Mobility  
_5_ |  Public Choice through Mobility  
_6_ |  Fiscal Fedralism: Organization of Subnational Government  
_7_ |  Supply of State and Local Goods and Services  
_8_ |  Pricing of Government Goods: User Charges  
_9_ |  Intergovernmental Grants  
_10_ |  Capital Investment, Borrowing, and Debt  
_11_ |  Principles of Tax Analysis  
_12_ |  Property Tax  
_13_ |  Local Taxes and Revenue from Government Monopoly and Regulation  
_14_ |  Policy Analysis I  
_15_ |  Policy Analysis II  
_16_ |  Presentation on Current Topics in State and Local Public Finance  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.