國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：政治參與及社會運動
#####  Course Name: Political Participation and Social Movement
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：256672001 Course No.256672001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：公行碩一、公行博一、公行碩二、公行博二 Course Department:Public Administration/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：王慧敏 Instructor: WONG WAI MAN NATALIE 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三567 Session: wed14-17 
##  課程簡介Course Description
“People’s power” is a chant frequently heard at many a public rally. Yet, what motivates people to act collectively? And, are their efforts likely to be successful? Is there such a thing as "people power" that matters to how we explain political, economic, and social change? This course aims to introduce students to various forms of political participation and social movements. It adopts a broad definition of political participation and seeks to examine, on the one hand, the conditions and outcomes of political participation at large and social movements in particular. We will compare and contrast certain of these movements with their counterparts in other countries. For all, we will identify the reasons for their successes and failures.  
---  
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 公共行政與政策分析的專業知識整合Integrated professional knowledge for public administration and policy analysis
  * B. 獨立實務調查與學術研究Independent research and study ability
  * C. 全球公民社會的責任與價值The responsibility and value for global civil society
  * D. 公共行政與政策分析的專業知識整合Integrated professional knowledge for public administration and policy analysis
  * E. 獨立實務調查與學術研究Independent research and study ability
  * F. 全球公民社會的責任與價值The responsibility and value for global civil society
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course discovers various forms of political participation and social movements through deploying theories of political participation and social movements, and apply them to empirical cases around the world. It also discovers the reasons, conditions and factors that make possible political participation and social movements as well as analyzes the outcomes of participation and social movements. Students enables to Understand the relationship between participation, movements and democratic governance.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
_Lecture_ |  _Topics_ |  _Reading review seminars_  
---|---|---  
1 |  Housekeeping & Introduction 
  * What is political participation? Types of Political Participation, Participation and Democracy 
  * Why does social movement matter? 
Readings
  * Arnstein, S. R. (1969) A ladder of citizen participation, _Journal of the American Institute of Planners_ , 35(4)216–22.
  * van Deth, Jan W. (2016) What is Political Participation? _Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Politics_. Available from: _http://politics.oxfordre.com/view/10.1093/acrefore/9780190228637.001.0001/acrefore-9780190228637-e-68_. 
  * Russell J. Dalton. 2008. _Citizen Politics: Public Opinion and Political Parties in Advanced Industrial Democracies_ , 5th ed. Washington: CQ Press. Chapter 3. 
  * Dalton, Russell J. , “Is citizen participation actually good for democracy?”, _British Politics and Policy_ , London School of Economics and Politics Science, available at: _http://blogs.lse.ac.uk/politicsandpolicy/is-citizen-participation-actually-good-for-democracy/?utm_content=buffer29030 &utm_medium=social&utm_source=facebook.com&utm_campaign=buffer_ (25 August 2017). 
  * Cox, Laurence. (2018) “Focus: Why Social Movements Matter?”, _Discover Society_. Available from: _https://discoversociety.org/2018/11/06/focus-why-social-movements-matter/?fbclid=IwAR0uSA77FjNnEpiUQLiGJipSwAOJgqYuXHxTYth-CTsjB9SbkIkToYSlM5k_ (6 November 2018) 
|   
2 |  No Class |   
3 |  Why People Participate? Who participates and who does not?
  * How do people become politically mobilized?
  * Socialization and political participation 
  * What barriers to political participation do some groups face?
Readings
  * Hibbing, John and Elizabeth Theiss-Morris. 2005. “Citizenship and Civic Engagement”, _Annual Review of Political Science_ , Vol. 8 Issue 1: 227-249.
  * Russell J. Dalton. 2008. _Citizen Politics: Public Opinion and Political Parties in Advanced Industrial Democracies_ , 5th ed. Washington: CQ Press. Ch 4.
  * Mettler, Suzanne and Joe Soss. 2004. “The Consequences of Public Policy forDemocratic Citizenship: Bridging Policy Studies and Mass Politics.” _Perspectives on Politics_ 2(1):55-73.
  * Teorell, Jan. 2006. "Political participation and three theories of democracy: A research inventory and agenda." _European Journal of Political Research_ 45 (5):787-810.
|  1  
4 |  What is a Social Movement? When and why do movements emerge…and decline?
  * Grievances transform to social movement 
  * Social Movement Theory 
Readings
  * Tarrow, Sidney (1994). _Power in Movement: Social Movements, Collective Action and Politics_. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, pp.1-27.
  * Olson, Mancur. _The Logic of Collective Action: Public Goods and the Theory of_ _Groups_. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1965, pp. 5-52.
  * Tarrow, Sidney. 1993. “Cycles of Collective Action: Between Moments of Madness and the Repertoire of Contention.” Social Science History Vol. 17 (2): 281-307.
  * Gamson, William A. and Gadi Wolfsfeld. 1993. “Movements and Media as Interacting Systems.”Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, 528:114-125.
|  2  
5 |  Impacts of social movement & policy change - How social movements matter? Do they make a difference? Readings
  * Whittier, N. (2004) The Consequences of Social Movements for Each Other, in _The Blackwell Companion to Social Movements_ (eds D. A. Snow, S. A. Soule and H. Kriesi), Blackwell Publishing Ltd, Oxford, UK.
  * Giugni, Marco G. 1998. “Was It Worth the Effort? The Outcomes and Consequences of Social Movements.” _Annual Review of Sociology_ 24:371-393.
  * Meyer, David S. 2003. “How Social Movements Matter.” _Contexts_ Vol. 2 (4): 30-35.Amenta, Edwin, Neal Caren, Elizabeth Chiarello, and Yang Su. 2010. “The Political Consequences of Social Movements.” Annual Review of Sociology 36:287-307.
  * Burstein, P. 1999. “Social Movements and Public Policy”, in How Social Movements Matter (eds Giugni, M. & Mcadam, D. & Tilly, C.), Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.
|  3  
6 |  Participation in International Politics - Debate: Power of transnational social movement vs. “the dangers” of global civil society Readings
  * Keck, M. E. and Sikkink, K. (1999), Transnational advocacy networks in international and regional politics. International Social Science Journal, 51: 89–101.
  * Elyachar, Julia. "Empowerment Money: The World Bank, Non-Governmental Organizations, and the Value of Culture in Egypt.” Public Culture 14, no.3:493-513.
  * Howell, Jude, and Jenny Pearce. "Manufacturing Civil Society from the Outside: Donor Interventions." Chapter 5 in Civil Society and Development. Boulder, CO: Lynne Rienner Publishers, 2001.
  * Fisher, William. "Doing Good? The Politics and Antipolitics of NGO Practices." Annual Review of Anthropology 26 (1997): 439-464.
  * Smith, Jackie. "Bridging Global Divides?". International Sociology 17, no. 4 (2002): 505-28.
|  4  
7 |  Transnational movements
  * Transnational Advocacy Networks (TANS) 
  * Environmental Movements in the Global South 
Readings
  * Keck, M.E. and Sikkink, K. (1999), “Transnational advocacy networks in international and regional politics”. International Social Science Journal, 51: 89-101. https://doi.org/10.1111/1468-2451.00179
  * Marco Giuni and Maria T. Grasso, “Environmental Movements in Advanced Industrial Democracies: Heterogeneity, Transformation, and Institutionalization,” in Annual Review of Environment and Resources 40, (2015), 337-361
  * Dwivedi, R. 2001. “Environmental Movements in the Global South: Issues of Livelihood and Beyond”, _International Sociology_ , 16(1):11-31.
|  5  
8 |  Local Environmental Movement
  * Case of Taiwan
Readings
  * Wong, Natalie W.M., (2016), "The road to environmental participatory governance in Taiwan: collaboration and challenges in incineration and municipal waste management", _Journal of Environmental Planning and Management_. DOI: 10.1080/09640568.2016.1251400
  * Grano, Simona Alba (2015). Environmental Governance in Taiwan: A New Generation of Activists and Stakeholders. London and New York: Routledge.
  * Lee, Yok-shiu F. and So, Alvin Y., eds., 1999, _Asia’s Environmental Movements: Comparative Perspectives_ , New York: M.E. Sharpe, Inc.
|  6  
9 |  Democratization movement - Case of South Korea Readings
  * Garretón, Manuel Antonio. "Social Movements and Democratization." In Social Movements in Development: The Challenge of Globalization and Democratization, edited by Staffan Lindberg and Árni Sverrisson, 67-77. London: Palgrave Macmillan UK, 1997.
  * della Porta, D. 2013. Democracy and Social Movements. The Wiley-Blackwell Encyclopedia of Social and Political Movements.
  * Kim, Sunhyuk. "Civil Society and Democratization in South Korea." Korea Journal 38, no. 2 (1998): 214-36.
  * ##  Shin, G.W. and Chang, P. Y. eds (2011), _South Korean Social Movements: From Democracy to Civil Society_. Oxon: Routledge. 
|  7  
10 |  Democratization and retreat
  * Case of Hong Kong 
Readings
  * Ngok, M. (2008), “ Civil Society and Democratization in Hong Kong Paradox and Duality”. Taiwan Journal of Democracy, Volume 4, No.2: 155-175
  * Stephan Ortmann (2015), “The Umbrella Movement and Hong Kong’s Protracted Democratization Process”, Asian Affairs, 46:1, 32-50, DOI: 10.1080/03068374.2014.994957
  * Francis Lee (2020) Solidarity in the Anti-Extradition Bill movement in Hong Kong, Critical Asian Studies, 52:1, 18-32
|  8  
11 |  Social Movement in authoritarian regime - Case of China  Readings
  * #### Wong, Natalie W.M. (2016) “Environmental protests and NIMBY activism: Local politics and waste management in Beijing and Guangzhou”, China Information, 30(2):143-164.
  * Xi Chen (2012), _Social Protest ad Contentious Authoritarianism in China_ (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press), Chapter 5.
  * Andrew Mertha (2008), _China’s Water Warriors: Citizen Action and Policy Change_ (Cornell Cornell University Press), Chapters 5 & 6.
  * Lianjiang Li and Kevin O’Brien (2008), “Protest Leadership in Rural China,” _China Quarterly_ , 193: 1-23.
  * Xi Chen and Ping Xu (2011), “From Resistance to Advocacy: Political Representation for Disabled People in China,” _China Quarterly_ , 207: 649-667.]
|  9  
12 |  What Makes a Social Movement Successful? Readings:
  * McCammon, Holly J., Karen E. Campbell, Ellen M. Granberg and Christine Mowery. 2001. “How Movements Win: Gendered Opportunity Structures and U.S. Women’s Surage Movements, 1866 to 1919.”American Sociological Review 66(1):49-70.
  * Gamson, William A. (2015). “Defining Movement “Success”” Pp. 383-385 in The Social Movements Reader: Cases and Concepts, 3rd Ed, edited by Jeff Goodwin and James M. Jasper. Oxford: Wiley Blackwell. 
  * Pellow, David N and Robert J. Brulle. (2015) “Environmental Justice.” Pp. 391-397 in The Social Movements Reader: Cases and Concepts, 3rd Ed, edited by Jeff Goodwin and James M. Jasper. Oxford: Wiley Blackwell. 
  * Stephan, Maria J. and Erica Chenoweth. (2008). “Why civil resistance works: The Strategic Logic of Nonviolent Conflict.” International Security, 33(1): 7-44.
  * Ozden, J. and Glover, S. (2023). “What makes a social movement successful?”, Social Change Lab. Available at: 
|  10  
13 |  No Class |   
14 |  Doing Social Movement Research Readings:
  * Lichterman, Paul. (2001). “Seeing Structure Happen: Theory-Driven Participant Observation,” in Suzanne Staggenborg and Bert Klandermans (eds), Methods of Social Movement Research. Minneapolis: The University of Minnesota Press, pp. 118–45. 
  * Balsiger, Philip and Alexandre Lambelet. (2014). “Participant Observation” Pp. 144-172 in Methodological Practices in Social Movement Research, edited by Donatella della Porta. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 
  * Lindekilde, Lisa. (2014). “Discourse and Frame Analysis: In-Depth Analysis of Qualitative Data in Social Movement Research” Pp. 195-227 in Methodological Practices in Social Movement Research, edited by Donatella della Porta. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
|   
15 |  _Class Presentations_ |   
16 |  _Paper Consultation & Preparation _ |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.