國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：貨幣經濟學（三） 
#####  Course Name: Monetary Economics (III)
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：258942001 Course No.258942001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：經濟碩一、經濟博一、經濟碩二、經濟博二 Course Department:Economics/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：李文傑 Instructor: LEE WEN-CHIEH 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五EFG Session: fri18-21
##  課程簡介Course Description
To give students the capability to understand the theories as well as the empirical skills and apply, in real world situations, the techniques that have been developed in the Entrepreneurial Economics.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 經濟專業知識(Expertise in Economics)
  * B. 全球經濟脈動思維與應用分析能力(Global thinking and ability of Economic analysis)
  * C. 策略規劃與解決經濟問題能力(Strategic planning and ability to resolve economic issues)
  * D. 獨立思考與研究能力(Ability of independent thinking and research)
  * E. 國際視野與國際競爭力(International Perspective Competitiveness)
  * F. 經濟專業進階知識(Advanced Expertise in Economics)
  * G. 獨立思考與研究能力(Ability of thinking and research)
  * H. 國際競爭力(International Competitiveness)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
To give students the capability to understand the theories as well as the empirical skills and apply, in real world situations, the techniques that have been developed in the Entrepreneurial Economics.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Scheduled Lecture:
Friday, Feb. 21
Topic:
The Empirics of Entrepreneurial Venture Creation
Required Readings:
Bhide, Amar, 2000, The Origin and Evolution of New Business, New York: Oxford University
Press. Chapter 1.
Giannetti, Mariassunta, and Andrei Simonov, 2009, Social interactions and entrepreneurial
activity, Journal of Economics and Management Strategy, 18, 665-709.
Gompers, Paul, Josh Lerner, and David Scharfstein, 2005, Entrepreneurial spawning, Journal of
Finance 60, 577-614.
Kaplan, Steven, Berk Sensoy, and Per Stromberg, 2009, Should Investors Bet on the Jockey or the Horse? Evidence from the Evolution of Firms from Early Business Plans to Public Companies, Journal of Finance 64:1, 75-115.
Lerner, Josh, and Ulrike Malmendier, 2012, With a little help from my (random) friends: success and failure in post-business school entrepreneurship, Working Paper
Nanda, Ramana, and Jesper Sorensen, 2010, Workplace peer effects and entrepreneurship, Management Science, forthcoming
Scheduled Lecture:
Friday, Mar.. 7
Topic:
Entrepreneurship and Household Behavior
Required readings:
David and Boyan Jovanovic (1989). “An Estimated Model of Entrepreneurial Choice
Under Liquidity Constraints”, Journal of Political Economy, 97(4), 808-27.
Evans, David, and Linda Leighton, “Some Empirical Aspects of Entrepreneurship”, American
Economic Review, 79(3), 519-35.
Douglas, David Joulfaian, and Harvey Rosen, (1994). “Sticking It Out:
Entrepreneurial Survival and Liquidity Constraints.” Journal of Political Economy, 102, 53-75.
Hurst, Erik and Annamaria Lusardi (2004). “Liquidity Constraints, Household Wealth, and
Entrepreneurship”, Journal of Political Economy, 11292), 319-47.
Hamilton, Bart (2000). “Does Entrepreneurship Pay? An Empirical Analysis of the Returns to
Self Employment”, Journal of Political Economy, 108, 604-31.
Moskowitz, Toby and Annette Vissing Jorgensen (2002) “The Returns to Entrepreneurial
Investment: A Private Equity Premium Puzzle?”, American Economic Review, 94(2), 745-78.
Hurst, Erik, Geng Li and Ben Pugsley (2011). "Are Household Surveys Like Tax Forms: Evidence from Income Underreporting of the Self Employed", Working Paper
Erik, Geng Li and Ben Pugsley (2011). "What Do Small Businesses Do?" Brookings
Papers on Economic Activity, forthcoming.
Scheduled Lecture:
Friday, Mar. 7, Mar. 14
Topic:
Entrepreneurial Strategy
Required readings:
Arora, A., A. Fosfuri and A. Gambardella (2001). “Markets for Technology and their
Implications for Corporate Strategy,” Industrial and Corporate Change, 10(2): 419-451.
Gans, Joshua S. 2011. “When is Static Analysis a Sufficient Proxy for Dynamic Considerations?
Reconsidering Antitrust and Innovation.” Innovation Policy and the Economy 11.
Gans, J.S., and S. Stern (2003). “The Product Market and the Market for Ideas: Commercialization Strategies for Technology Entrepreneurs,” Research Policy, 32: 333-350
Gans, J.S., D. Hsu and S. Stern (2008). “The Impact of Uncertain Intellectual Property Rights on the Market for Ideas,” Management Science, 54(5): 982-997.
Hellmann, Thomas, and Enrico Perotti. 2011. “The Circulation of Ideas in Firms and Markets.”
Management Science.
Luo, Hong. "When to Sell Your Idea: Theory and Evidence from the Movie Industry." Harvard
Business School Working Paper, No. 12-039, November 2011.
Recommended readings:
Anton, J.J. and D.A. Yao. 1994. “Expropriation and Inventions: Appropriable Rents in the
Absence of Property Rights.” American Economic Rev. 84 190-209.
Arora, A. 1995. “Licensing Tacit Knowledge: Intellectual Property Rights and the Market for
Know-How", Economics of Innovation and New Technology 4 41-49.
Arora, A., A. Fosfuri, and A. Gambardella. 2001. Markets for Technology: The Economics of
Innovation and Corporate Strategy. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. [Not available electronically]
Baumol, W., “Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Growth: The David-Goliath Symbiosis,”
http://www.econ.nyu.edu/user/baumolw/sfg.pdf
Chatterji, A. and K. Fabrizio (2012). “Do the Costs of Cooperation Drive the Gale of Creative Destruction? Commercialization Strategies in the Medical Device Industry,” mimeo, Duke University
Eesley, C., Hsu, D. and E. Roberts (2012). “Focus or Diversify? Aligning Founding Teams with
Strategy and Environment,” mimeo, University of Pennsylvania.
Gans, J.S., and S. Stern (2000). “Incumbency and R&D Incentives: Licensing the Gale of
Creative Destruction,” Journal of Economics and Management Strategy, 9(4): 485-511.
Gans, J.S., and S. Stern. 2010. “Is There a Market for Ideas?” Industrial and Corporate Change
19(3): 805-837.
Gans, J.S., D.H. Hsu and S. Stern. 2002. “When Does Start-up Innovation Spur the Gale of
Creative Destruction?” RAND Journal of Economics 33: 571-86.
Hellmann, T. (2007). “The role of patents for bridging the science to market gap,” Journal of
Economic Behavior and Organization, 63(4): 624-657.
Hellmann, T, and M. Puri (2000). “The Interaction between Product Market and Financing
Strategy: The Role of Venture Capital,” Review of Financial Studies, 13(4): 959-984.
Hsu, D. (2006). “Venture Capitalists and Cooperative Start-up Commercialization Strategy,”
Management Science, 52: 204-219
Hsu, D. and M. Marx (2012). “Technology Commercialization Strategy Dynamics and Entrepreneurial Performance: Evidence from the Speech Recognition Industry,” working paper, University of Pennsylvania.
Lamoreaux, N. and K. Sokoloff (2001). “Market Trade in Patents and the Rise of a Class of Specialized Inventors in the 19th Century United States,” American Economic Review Papers and Proceedings, 91(2): 39-44.
Lerner, J. and R. Merges. 1998. “The Control of Technology Alliances: An Empirical Analysis
of the Biotechnology Industry,” Journal of Industrial Economics. 46 125-156.
Levine, A. (2007). “Licensing and Scale Economies in the Biotechnology Pharmaceutical
Industry,” mimeo., Stanford University.
Malmendier, U. and J. Lerner, “Contractibility and the Design of Research Agreements,”
American Economic Review, 100(1): 214-246.
Teece, D. 1986. “Profiting from Technological Innovation: Implications for Integration, Collaboration, Licensing and Public Policy.” Research Policy 15: 285-305.
Scheduled Lecture:
Friday, Mar 21
Topic:
Productivity and Entrepreneurship
The focus of the lecture will be on what we know about the contribution of entry and young firms to productivity and job growth. An overview of theoretical underpinnings as well as the empirical evidence will be presented. In addition, both discussion and material about data sources that can be used to study entry and the productivity and survival dynamics of young firms will be provided.
Required Readings:
Davis, S., J. Haltiwanger and J. Faberman, “Labor Market Flows in the Cross-Section and Over
Time,” Journal of Monetary Economics, January 2012.
Foster, L., J. Haltiwanger and C.J. Krizan, "Market Selection, Reallocation, and Restructuring in the U.S. Retail Trade Sector in the 1990s, Review of Economics and Statistics, 2006.
Foster, L., J. Haltiwanger, and C. Syverson, “Reallocation, Firm Turnover and Efficiency: Selection on Productivity or Profitability,” American Economic Review, March 2008.
Haltiwanger, J., “Job Creation and Firm Dynamics in the U.S.” Innovation Policy and the Economy, Volume 12 (2012), Josh Lerner and Scott Stern (eds.) [in readings as Haltiwanger_2011]
Haltiwanger, J., R. Jarmin and J. Miranda, “Who Creates Jobs? Small vs. Large vs. Young”
Review of Economics and Statistics (forthcoming).
Syverson, C. “What Determines Productivity?” Journal of Economic Literature, June 2011.
Recommended Readings:
Baily, M., C. Hulten, and D.Campbell. “Productivity Dynamics in Manufacturing
Establishments.” Brookings Papers on Economic Activity: Microeconomics, 187-249, 1992.
Davis, S., and J. Haltiwanger, “Gross Job Flows,” in Ashenfelter and Card (eds.), Handbook of
Labor Economics, North-Holland: Amsterdam, 1999.
Davis, S. , J. Haltiwanger, R. Jarmin, C.J. Krizan, J. Miranda, A. Nucci, and K. Sandusky. "Measuring the Dynamics of Young and Small Businesses: Integrating the Employer and Nonemployer Universes." in Timothy Dunne, J. Bradford Jensen, and Mark J. Roberts (eds.), Producer dynamics: new evidence from micro data. 2010.
Dunne, T. M. Roberts, and L. Samuelson. “Patterns of Firm Entry and Exit in U.S. Manufacturing Industries.” RAND Journal of Economics, 19(4): 495-515, 1988.
Ericson, R. A. Pakes, “Markov Perfect Industry Dynamics: A Framework for Empirical Work,”
Review of Economic Studies, Vol. 62(1), 1995, 53-82.
Hopenhayn, H. “Entry, Exit, and Firm Dynamics in Long Run Equilibrium.” Econometrica,
60(5): 1127-1150, 1992.
Jovanovic, B., “Selection and the Evolution of Industry,” Econometrica, 50(3), 649-670, 1982.
Melitz, M. and G. Ottaviano “Market Size, Trade, and Productivity”, Review of Economic
Studies, January 2008.
Scheduled Lecture:
Friday, Mar. 28, Apr.4
Topic:
Human Capital in Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Required Readings:
Kline, S. and N. Rosenberg (1986). “An Overview of Innovation,” in The Positive Sum Strategy: Harnessing Technology for Economic Growth, Rosenberg et al. (eds.), 275-305.
Wadhwa, V., R. Freeman,. and B. Rissing (2010). “Education and Tech Entrepreneurship,”
Innovations, Spring 2010. http://ssrn.com/abstract=1127248 .
Jones, B. (2009). “The Burden of Knowledge and the Death of the Renaissance Man: Is
Innovation Getting Harder?” Review of Economic Studies. 76(1): 283-317.
Wuchty,S., B. Jones, and B. Uzzi (2007). “The Increasing Dominance of Teams in the
Production of Knowledge,” Science, 316.
Jones, B. (2010). “Age and Great Invention,” Review of Economics and Statistics, 92 (1): 1-14.
Recommended Readings:
Jones, C. (1999). “Growth: With or Without Scale Effects?” American Economic Review, 89(2):
139-144.
Kortum, S. (1997). "Research, Patenting, and Technological Change." Econometrica, 65(6):
1389-1419.
Weitzman, M. (1998). “Recombinant Growth,” Quarterly Journal of Economics. 113(2): 331-
360.
Jones, B., S. Wuchty, and B. Uzzi (2008). “Multi-University Research Teams: Shifting Impact,
Geography and Stratification in Science,” Science, 322.
Jones, B. and B. Weinberg (2011). “Age Dynamics in Scientific Creativity,” Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences, 108 (47).
Simonton, Dean K., "Age and Outstanding Achievement: What Do We Know After a Century of
Research?" Psychological Bulletin 104 (September 1988b), 251-267.
Zuckerman, Harriet and Robert Merton, "Age, Aging, and Age Structure in Science," in Robert
Merton (Ed.) The Sociology of Science (Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 1973), 497-
559. [Not available electronically]
Simonton, Dean K. Scientific Genius: A Psychology of Science (Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1988a). [Not available electronically]
Kuhn, Thomas S., The Structure of Scientific Revolutions (Chicago: University of Chicago Press,
1962).
Scheduled Lecture:
Apr. 11,
Midterm Project Report
Scheduled Lecture:
Friday, Apr. 18
Topic:
Competition and Innovation
Required readings:
Aghion, P, Bloom, N, Blundell, R, Griffith, R, and P. Howitt (2005) “Competition and
Innovation: An Inverted U Relationship”, Quarterly Journal of Economics.
Aghion P, Blundell R, Griffith R, Howitt P and S. Prantl (2007) “The effects of entry on incumbent innovation and productivity,” Review of Economics and Statistics, Vol. 91, No. 1, pp.
20-32
Aghion, P, Dewatripont, M, Du, L, Harrison, A, and P. Legros (2012) “Industrial Policy and
Competition”, Working Paper
Aghion, P, Howitt, P , and S. Prantl (2011), “Patent Protection, Product Market Reforms and
Innovative Investments”, Working Paper
Nickell, S (1996), “Competition and Corporate Performance”, Journal of Political Economy.
Qian, Y (2007), "Do National Patent Laws Stimulate Domestic Innovation in A Global Patenting
Environment?", Review of Economics and Statistics, 89, 436-453.
Recommended readings:
Aghion, P and R. Griffith (2006), Competition and Growth, MIT Press [Not available electronically]
Acemoglu, D (2009) Introduction to Modern Economic Growth, Princeton [Not available electronically]
Aghion, P and P. Howitt (2009), The Economics of Growth, MIT Press [Not available electronically]
Boldrin, M, and D. Levine (2008), Against Intellectual Monopoly, Cambridge University Press
[Not available electronically]
Scheduled Lecture:
Friday, Apr. 25, May. 2, 9
Topic:
Development and Entrepreneurship
Required readings:
Banerjee, A. and Duflo, E. (2008). "Do Firms Want to Borrow More? Testing Credit Constraints
Using a Directed Lending Program." M.I.T. Working Paper.
Bertrand, M., Schoar, A., 2006. The role of family in family firms, Journal of Economic
Perspectives 20, 73–96.
Bruhn, M., D. Karlan, A. Schoar, “What capital is missing in developing countries”, American
Economic Review, May 2010.
De Mel, S., McKenzie, D., and Woodruff, C. (2008). “Returns to Capital in Microenterprises: Evidence from a Field Experiment”. The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 123(4): 1329-1372.
Karlan, D., and J. Zinman (2009). “Observing Unobservables: Identifying Information
Asymmetries With a Consumer Credit Field Experiment.” Econometrica 77:1993-2008.
La Porta, R., F. López-de-Silanes, A. Shleifer, and R. Vishny, “Law and Finance,” Journal of
Political Economy, CIV (1998), 1113–1155
Rajan, R., and Zingales, L. (1998), “Financial dependence and growth”, American Economic
Review, 88: 559–586.
Recommended readings:
Bennedson, M., Nielsen, K., Perez-Gonzalez, F., Wolfenzon, D., 2007. Inside the family firm:
the role of families in succession decisions and performance. Quarterly Journal of Economics
122, 647–691.
Bertrand, M., S. Johnson, K. Samphantharak and A. Schoar, Mixing Family With Business: A Study of Thai Business Groups and the Families Behind Them, The Journal of Financial Economics, June 2008, 88 (3), 466-498.
Claessens, S., Djankov, S., Lang, L., 2000. The separation of ownership and control in East
Asian Corporation. Journal of Financial Economics 58, 81–112.
Schoar, A. (2010) “The Divide Between Subsistence and Transformational Entrepreneurship”Innovation Policy and the Economy, Vol. 10, edited by Josh Lerner and Scott Stern , NBER, University of Chicago Press.
Udry, C.and Anagol, S. (2006). “The Return to Capital in Ghana.” American Economic Review,
96(2): 388–393.
Scheduled Lecture:
Friday, May 16, 23, 30 
Topic:
Venture Capital Financing
Required readings:
Bottazzi, Laura, Marco Da Rin and Thomas Hellmann (2008), "Who are the active investors? Evidence from venture capital" Journal of Financial Economics, 89(3), 488-512
Da Rin, Marco, Thomas Hellmann, and Manju Puri (2011), "A survey of venture capital research" ; Forthcoming in George Constantinides, Milton Harris, and René Stulz (eds) Handbook of the Economics of Finance, vol 2, Amsterdam, North Holland Bottazzi,
Hsu, David, What Do Entrepreneurs Pay for Venture Capital Affiliation?, Journal of Finance, 59:
1805-1844, August 2004
Kaplan, Steven, and Per Strömberg, 2003, “Financial Contracting Theory Meets the Real World:
Evidence from Venture Capital Contracts,” Review of Economic Studies 70, 281–315.
Kerr, W., Lerner, J., Schoar, A. (2011). “The consequences of entrepreneurial finance: a regression discontinuity analysis”. Review of Financial Studies, forthcoming.
Recommended readings:
Ewens, Michael, and Matt Rhodes-Kropf, 2012, “Is the VC Partnership Greater than the Sum of its Partners?” Mimeo, Harvard Business School
Hellmann, Thomas and Manju Puri, 2002, "Venture Capital and the Professionalization of Start- up Firms: Empirical Evidence" The Journal of Finance, 57(1), 169-197
Kaplan, Steven, and Per Strömberg, 2004, “Characteristics, Contracts, and Actions: Evidence from Venture Capital Analyses,” Journal of Finance 59, 2177-2210.
Kaplan, S., Schoar, A. (2005). “Private equity performance: returns, persistence, and capital flows”. Journal of Finance 60, 1791–1823.
Lerner, J., Schoar, A., Wongsunwai, W. (2007). “Smart institutions, foolish choices? The limited
partner performance puzzle”. Journal of Finance 62, 731-764.
Samila, Sampsa and Olav Sorenson “Venture Capital, Entrepreneurship, and Economic Growth”
Review of Economics and Statistics, 93 (2011): 338-349
Sorensen, Morten, 2007, “How smart is the smart money? A two-sided matching model of
venture capital” Journal of Finance 62:6, 2725-62.
Tian, Xuan, 2011 “The Causes and Consequences of Venture Capital Stage Financing,” Journal
of Financial Economics, 101, 132-159
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.