國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：語言、文化與數位媒體
#####  Course Name: Language, Culture and Digital Media
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：259693001 Course No.259693001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：民族碩一 Course Department:Ethnology/M/1 
  * 授課老師：劉子愷 Instructor: LIU TZU KAI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12 
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course looks at “digital media” through the lens of culture and language and follows sociolinguist and linguistic anthropological frameworks to unpack the meanings of cultural and linguistic practices of digital media in Asian and non-Asian contexts. Digital media comprises both the internet and mobile mass communication. Its content presented in various styles and genres (written, oral and visual) or in culturally-specific repertoires can be transmitted over the internet or social media networks. This course, in particular, examines the impacts of the internet, smartphone, website and social media on interpersonal, intercultural and multilingual communication and networks. 
This course will first discuss the sociolinguistic study of “language and media” and then explain the anthropological study of “digital ethnography.” One prioritizes the significance of linguistic practices with fewer interests in considering intercultural contexts; the other looks at the role of culture(s) in meaning-(re)making and identity construction but normally having very-limited analysis on language use. Combining these two approaches is meaningful in that it opens a dynamic space for us to foreground and better understand the divergent meanings of digital media practices which are highly influenced by multilingual, multiethnic and intercultural dynamics. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 民族學與人類學專業知識與獨立研究能力
  * B. 獨立思考、批判論證與創新之能力
  * C. 分析問題、掌握議題和解決之能力
  * D. 學術對話與發表研究成果之能力
  * E. 注重專業價值、多元文化與學術倫理
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  * Critically review and discuss the trends of “digital media” from the views of language and culture.
  * Examine extant literature on the topics of language variation, multilingual and multimodal communication, interactivity, online social movement and online civic movement; and integrate sociolinguistic and anthropological approaches into the analysis of cultural politics of digital media practices, online and offline.
  * Apply above intellectual concepts and theoretical frameworks to their own experiences of and observations on digital media practices.
  * Enhance students’ awareness of cultural diversity, language variation and social inequality in digital media practices.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Spring 2025 Language, Culture and Digital Media上傳到政大課程網
Week |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and Homework |  Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
In-class Hours |  Outside-of-class Hours  
1 |  (2/20) Introduction Looking at Digital Media through the Lens of Language and Culture  透過語言和文化探討數位媒體（網路、智慧手機、社群媒體） |  |  Presentation Discussion |  3 |  2  
2 |  (2/27) Language, Digital Ethnography and New Media  語言、數位民族誌和新媒體 |  Rampton, Ben, Janet Maybin and Celia Roberts 2015 Theory and Method in Linguistic Ethnography. In Linguistic Ethnography: Interdisciplinary Explorations. Julia Snell, Sara Shaw and Fiona Copland, eds. Pp. 14- 50. New York: Palgrave MacMillan. Barton, David and Carmen Lee 2013 Language Online: Investigating Digital Texts and Practices. London: Routledge. Chapter 12: Researching Language Online. Yin, Yiyi and Zhouxiao Xie 2024 Playing Platformized Language Games: Social Media Logic and the Mutation of Participatory Cultures in Chinese Online Fandom. New Media & Society 26(2): 619-641. |  Presentation Discussion |  3 |  8  
3 |  (3/6) Language Variation and Multilingualism Online 語言變異和網路多語主義 |  Varis, Piia and Mingyi Hou 2019 Digital Approaches in Linguistic Ethnography. In The Routledge Handbook of Linguistic Ethnography. Karin Tusting, eds. London: Routledge.  Hinrichs, Lars 2015 Approaches to Language Variation. In The Routledge Handbook of Language and  Digital Communication. Alexandra Georgakopoulou and Tereza Spilioti, eds., Pp.19-35.  Lee, Carmen 2017 Multilingualism Online. London: Routledge. Chapter 4: Multilingual Practices and Identities Online. McEntee-Atalianis, L., Ateek, M., & Gardner-Chloros, P.  2023 Multilingual Repertoires and Identity in Social Media: Syrian Refugees on Facebook. International Journal of Bilingualism 27(5): 731-748. |  Presentation Discussion |  3 |  8  
4 |  (3/13) Translanguaging and Superdiversity 跨語實踐和超多樣性 |  Nekvapil, Jiri and Tamah Sherman 2018 Managing Superdiversity in Multinational Companies. In The Routledge Handbook of Language and Superdiversity: An Interdisciplinary Perspective. Angela Cresse and Adrian Blackledge, eds. Pp. 329-344.  Wei, Li  2018 Translanguaging as a Practical Theory of Language. Applied Linguistics 39(1): 9-30. Varis, P. and Xuan Wang  2011 Superdiversity on the Internet: A Case from China. Diversities 13(2): 71-83. Ren, Wei and Yaping Guo  2024 Translanguaging in Self-Praise on Chinese Social Media. Applied Linguistics Review 15(1): 355-376. |  Presentation Discussion |  3 |  8  
5 |  (3/20) Multimodal Communication, Social Media and the Visual |  Zappavigna, Michele  2016 Social Media Photography: Construing Subjectivity in Instagram Images. Visual Communication 15(3): 271-292. Nakassis, C.V.  2023 A Linguistic Anthropology of Images. Annual Review of Anthropology 52(1): 73-91. Vaisman, Carmel L. 2016 Pretty in Pink vs. Pretty in Black: Blogs as Gendered Avatars. Visual Communication, 15(3): 293-315. |  Presentation Discussion |  3 |  8  
6 |  (3/27) Multimodal Communication and Semiotics |  Jewitt, Carey and Henriksen, Berit 2016 Social Semiotic Multimodality. In Handbuch Sprache im multimodalen Kontext. Nina-Maria Klug and Hartmut Stöckl, eds. Pp.145-164. Berlin: De Gruyter. Jovanovic, D., & Van Leeuwen, T.  2018 Multimodal Dialogue on Social Media. Social Semiotics 28(5): 683-699. Ledin, Per and David Machin  2018 Doing Critical Discourse Studies with Multimodality: From Metafunctions to Materiality. Critical Discourse Studies 16(5): 497-513. |  Presentation Discussion |  3 |  8  
7 |  (4/3) National Holiday |  |  |  |   
8 |  (4/10) Language, Memes and Emoji |  Wiggins, Bradley E.  2019 The Discursive Power of Memes in Digital Culture: Ideology, Semiotics, and Intertextuality. London: Routledge. Chapter 2: The Discursive Power of Memes in Digital Culture. Konrad, Artie, Susan C Herring, David Choi  2020 Sticker and Emoji Use in Facebook Messenger: Implications for Graphicon Change. Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication 25(3): 217-235. Dickinson, Jennifer  2020 Emoji and Emoji Language. The International Encyclopedia of Linguistic Anthropology https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118786093.iela0442 Tang, Ying and Khe Foon Hew  2019 Emoticon, Emoji, and Sticker Use in Computer-Mediated Communication: A Review of Theories and Research Findings. International Journal of Communication 13: 2457-2483. |  Presentation Discussion  |  3 |  8  
9 |  (4/17) Hate Speech and Online Communication |  Wilson, Richard Ashby  2019 The Digital Ethnography of Law: Studying Online Hate Speech Online and Offline. Journal of Legal Anthropology 3(1): 1-20. Pohjonen, Matti  2019 A Comparative Approach to Social Media Extreme Speech: Online Hate Speech as Media Commentary. International Journal of Communication 13: 3088-3103. Costello, Matthew and James Hawdon  2020 Hate Speech in Online Spaces. In The Palgrave Handbook of International Cybercrime and Cyberdeviance. T. J. Holt and A. M. Bossler, eds. Pp.1397-1416. London: Palgrave Macmillan.  Aziz, A.  2024 Rohingya Diaspora Online: Mapping the Spaces of Visibility, Resistance and Transnational Identity on Social Media. New Media & Society 26(9): 5219-5239. |  Presentation Discussion |  6 |  8  
10 |  (4/24) Community of Practice, Online Community and Civic Participation |  Angouri, Jo  2015 Online Communities and Communities of Practices. In The Routledge Handbook of Language and Digital Communication. Alexandra Georgakopoulou and Tereza Spilioti, eds., Pp. 323-338. London: Routledge. Wu, Xiaoping  2018 Discursive Strategies of Resistance on Weibo: A Case Study of the 2015 Tianjin Explosions in China. Discourse, Context & Media 26: 64-73. Milani, Tommaso M.  2013 Are ‘Queers’ Really ‘Queer’? Language, Identity and Same-sex Desire in a South African Online Community. Discourse and Society 24(5): 615-633. |  Presentation Discussion |  6 |  8  
11 |  (5/1) Language Ideology, Digital Discourse and COVID-19 Pandemics |  Subtirelu, Nicholas Close  2017 Raciolinguistic Ideology and Spanish-English Bilingualism on the US Labor Market: An Analysis of Online Job Advertisements. Language in Society 46(4): 477-505. Zhu, Hongqiang  2020 Countering COVID-19-related Anti-Chinese Racism with Translanguaged Swearing on Social Media. Multilingua 39(5): 607-616. Spilioti, Tereza 2015 Digital Discourse: A Critical Perspective. In The Routledge Handbook of Language and Digital Communication. Alexandra Georgakopoulou and Tereza  Spilioti, eds., Pp. 133-148. London: Routledge. |  Presentation Discussion |  6 |  8  
12 |  (5/8) Ethnographic Case:  Young Adults On- and Offline |  Dovchin, Sender, Shaila Sultana and Alastair Pennycook 2018 Popular Culture, Voice and Linguistic Diversity: Young Adults On- and Offline. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan. Chapter 1: The first chapter, Language, Culture, and the Periphery.  Chapter 2: Transglossia: From Translanguaging to Transglossia.  Chapter 3: Translossia and Music: Music, Sound and Authenticity. |  Presentation Discussion |  6 |  8  
13 |  (5/15) Ethnographic Case:  Work, Gender and the Visual |  Lukács, Gabriella 2020 Invisibility by Design: Women and Labor in Japan's Digital Economy. Durham: Duke University Press. Introduction Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 |  Presentation Discussion |  3 |  8  
14 |  (5/22) Ethnographic Case: Language, Political Activism and Social Media |  Sinatora, Francesco L. 2019 Language, Identity, and Syrian Political Activism on Social Media. London: Routledge. Chapter 2: Hybridity on Syrian Dissidents’ Social Media.  Chapter 3: Hybridity and Cosmopolitan Identities.  Chapter 6: Hybridity, Secular Identities and Radical Islamic Discourse. |  Presentation Discussion |  3 |  8  
15 |  (5/29) Ethnographic Case: Ageing, Care and Smartphone |  Wang, Xinyuan  2024 Ageing with Smartphones in Urban China: From the Cultural to the Digital Revolution in Shanghai. London: UCL Press. 1 Introduction  2 Ageing and retirement: ruptures and continuity  3 Everyday life: Daily activities and the digital routine  5 Crafting the smartphone  6 Crafting health: the moral body and the therapeutic smartphone |  Presentation Discussion |  3 |  8  
16 |  (6/5) |  Final Project Presentation |  Presentation |  8 |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.