國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：當代中國專題：遷徙、勞動與數位媒體
#####  Course Name: Migration, Labor and Digital Media in Contemporary China
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：259681001 Course No.259681001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：民族碩一、民族博一 Course Department:Ethnology/G/1 
  * 授課老師：劉子愷 Instructor: LIU TZU KAI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五D56 Session: fri13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This is a course for graduate students who are interested in doing ethnographic research with a focus on the topics of labor and migration in the digital age. Students with or without background knowledge of contemporary China are welcome to take this course. This course examines the scales and practices of migration and labor in the digital media era with an intensive focus on domestic and transnational migration in China. In order to enrich the depth and comparison of case studies, this course will also cover a few ethnographic cases from other East Asian countries. This course, in particular, focuses on the impacts of the internet, smartphones, websites, and social media on interpersonal and intercultural communication and networks in the context of migration. It covers the conceptual and theoretical frameworks of digital labor, platform economy, gig economy, digital working-class, affective labor, and precarity in the fields of anthropology, applied economics, sociology, and communication. The class will also read the books and ethnographies which, in particular, focus on rural-to-urban migration, return migration, _suzhi_ discourse, gender politics, migrant networks, transnational family ties, care, class differentiation, and digital labor.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHIJK雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 民族學與人類學專業知識與獨立研究能力
  * B. 獨立思考、批判論證與創新之能力
  * C. 分析問題、掌握議題和解決之能力
  * D. 學術對話與發表研究成果之能力
  * E. 注重專業價值、多元文化與學術倫理
  * F. 具備民族學專業知識與主題田野調查研究能力
  * G. 具備撰寫研究論文與發表研究成果能力
  * H. 具備傳授民族學專業知識的能力
  * I. 具備對研究主題進行整合跨領域之能力
  * J. 具備民族相關行政規劃與決策能力
  * K. 具備國際學術交流能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  * Critically review and discuss the topics of labor and migration in the age of digital media from the interdisciplinary approaches.
  * Examine extant literature on the topics of labor migration and digital media in East Asian and Southeast Asian countries.
  * Apply above intellectual concepts and theoretical frameworks to their own experiences and observations of migration and digital media practices.
  * Enhance students’ awareness of social inequality, class gap and digital divide in digital media practices that migrants encounter.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Week |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and Homework |  Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
In-class Hours |  Outside-of-class Hours  
1 (2/21) |  Conceptualizing Migration and Labor in the Digital/Chip Era  |  Introduction |  |  3 |  2  
2 (2/28) |  National Holiday |  |  |  3 |  8  
3 (3/7) |  Labor, Ideology and Political Economy in the Age of Social Media |  Fuchs, Christian  2015 Culture and Economy in the Age of Social Media. New York: Routledge. [Read] Chapter 3: Communication, Ideology, and Labour.  Chapter 4: Social Media and Labour Time.  Ticona, Julia 2022 Left to Our Own Devices: Coping with Insecure Work in a Digital Age. Oxford:  Oxford University Press. Chapter 1: The Digital Hustle.  |  Presentation and Discussion |  3 |  8  
4 (3/14) |  Platform Economy and Sharing Economy |  Vallas, Steven and Juliet B. Schor  2020 What Do Platforms Do? Understanding the Gig Economy. Annual Review of Sociology 46: 273-294. Chen, Julie Yujie  2020 The Mirage and Politics of Participation in China’s Platform Economy. Javnost: The Public 27(2): 154-170. Schor, Juliet B. and Steven P. Vallas  2021 The Sharing Economy: Rhetoric and Reality. Annual Review of Sociology 47: 369-389. Schinkel, Willem  2023 Steps to an Ecology of Algorithms. Annual Review of Anthropology 52:171-186. Liao, Sara  2024 The Platformization of Misogyny: Popular Media, Gender Politics, and Misogyny in China’s State-Market Nexus. Media, Culture & Society 46(1): 191-203. |  Presentation and Discussion |  3 |  8  
5 (3/21) |  Digital Labor, Exploitation and Informational Capitalism |  Fuchs, Christian  2014 Digital Labor and Karl Marx. London: Routledge. Chapter 11: Theorizing Digital Labour on Social Media.  Rouse, Lauren and Anastasia Salte  2021 Cosplay on Demand? Instagram, OnlyFans, and the Gendered Fantrepreneur. Social  Media+Society Wong, J., Lee, C., Long, V. K., Wu, D., & Jones, G. M. 2021 “Let’s Go, Baby Forklift!”: Fandom Governance and the Political Power of Cuteness in China. Social Media + Society 7(2). |  Presentation and Discussion |  3 |  8  
6 (3/28) |  Labor, Precarity and (Dis)empowerment |  Han, Clara  2018 Precarity, Precariousness, and Vulnerability. Annual Review of Anthropology 47: 331-343. Huang, Hui  2021 Riders on the Storm: Amplified Platform Precarity and the Impact of COVID-19 on  Online Food-delivery Drivers in China. Journal of Contemporary China. Stead, Victoria  2021 Precarity’s Reach: Intersections of History, Life, and Labour in the Australian Horticultural Industry. Journal of Royal Anthropological Association 27(2): 303-320. |  Presentation and Discussion |  3 |  8  
7 (4/4) |  National Holiday |  |  |  3 |  8  
8 (4/11) |  Digital Working Class, Labor and Migrants |  Qiu, Jack Linchuan  2018 China’s Digital Working Class and Circuits of Labor. Communication and the Public  3(1): 5-18. Soriano, Cheryll Ruth R  2021 Digital Labour in the Philippines: Emerging Forms of Brokerage. Media International  Australia 179(1): 23-37. |  Presentation and Discussion |  3 |  8  
9 (4/18) |  Return Migration, Homelands and (Im)mobilities |  Hagan, Jacqueline Maria and Joshua Thomas Wassink  2020 Return Migration Around the World: An Integrated Agenda for Future Research. Annual Review of Sociology 46: 533-552. Ling, Minhua 2024 Reconfiguring Home: Rural-Bound Return and Translocal Householding in Postreform China. In States of Return: Rethinking Migration and Mobility. Deborah A. Boehm and Mikaela H. Rogozen-Soltar, eds. Pp. 166-186. New York: NYU Press. Pido, Eric J.  2017 Migrant Returns: Manila, Development, and Transnational Connectivity. Durham:  Duke University Press. Chapter 5: The Balikbayan House: The Precarity of Return Migrant Homes.  |  Presentation and Discussion |  6 |  8  
10 (4/25) |  Migrants, Gender Politics and Affective Labor |  Wallis, Cara  2018 Domestic Workers and the Affective Dimensions of Communicative Empowerment.  Communication, Culture, and Critique 11(2): 213-230. Ip, Penn Tsz Ting  2017 Desiring Singlehood? Rural Migrant Women and Affective Labour in the Shanghai Beauty Parlour Industry. Inter-Asia Cultural Studies 18(4): 558-580. Mankekar, Purnima and Akhil Gupta  2016 Intimate Encounters: Affective Labor in Call Centers. Positions 24 (1): 17-43. |  Presentation and Discussion |  6 |  8  
11 (5/2) |  Migration, Transnational Family and Care |  Francisco-Menchavez, Valerie 2018 The Labor of Care: Filipina Migrants and Transnational Families in the Digital Age.  Urbana: University of Illinois Press. Introduction: Filipinos Transnational Families and New Caring Strategies.  Chapter 1: Multidirectional Care in Transnational Families.  Yu, Haiqing, Ge Zhang and Larissa Hjorth  2023 Mobilizing Care? WeChat for Older Adults’ Digital Kinship and Informal Care in  Wuhan Households. Mobile Media and Communication 11(2) |  Presentation and Discussion |  6 |  8  
12 (5/9) |  Care, Work and Feeling Machines |  Bender, Shawn 2024 Feeling Machines: Japanese Robotics and the Global Entanglements of More-Than- Human Care. Stanford: Stanford University Press. Introduction: Care Robotics 1.0 Chapter 2: Feeling Machines in Robot Towns Chapter3: Tinkering with Care Chapter 4: Embracing Paro |  Presentation and Discussion |  6 |  8  
13 (5/16) |  Social Media Influencer and Youtube  |  Bollmer, Grant and Katherine Guinness 2024 The Influencer Factory: A Marxist Theory of Corporate Personhood on YouTube.  Stanford: Stanford University Press. Introduction Chapter 1: House Chapter 2: Car Chapter 5: Corpocene |  Presentation and Discussion |  3 |  8  
14 (5/23) |  Rethinking Migration, Labor and Return |  Morton, Gregory D. 2024 Return from the World: Economic Growth and Reverse Migration in Brazil. The University of Chicago Press. Introduction Chapter 1: The Phone Call Home Chapter 2: The Roads Chapter 5: The Money Chapter 6: The Things You Hold |  Presentation and Discussion |  3 |  8  
15 (5/30) |  National Holiday |  |  |  3 |  8  
16 (6/6) |  |  Final Project Presentation |  |  8 |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.