國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：藏學人類學
#####  Course Name: Tibetological Anthropology
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：259662001 Course No.259662001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：民族碩一 Course Department:Ethnology/M/1 
  * 授課老師：陳乃華 Instructor: CHEN NAI-HUA 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12 
##  課程簡介Course Description
Tibetology (Tibetan: བོད་རིག་པ།, bod-rig-pa) refers to the study of things related to Tibet, including its history, religion, language, culture, politics and the collection of Tibetan articles of historical, cultural and religious significance. Tibetological Anthropology, starting with the perspective of anthropology, is intended to give an overview of the anthropological research carried out at home and abroad on Tibetan culture. It is assumed that Tibetology and anthropology are closely related as anthropology expands the horizons of Tibetological research by improving its theories and methods. The article suggests to form a new science Tibetological Anthropology, which should dispel cultural conflicts.
Is Tibetan civilization unitary or pluralistic? Tibetological Anthropology that contains expectations for historical research. It is different from Tibetan Studies, it pays more attention to the research of history and civilization, and focuses on the combination with the ethnographic method of anthropology. The relationship between historical and humanistic research and reality can better handle the contradiction between rigorous academics and broad vision. Because only by broadening our horizons can we have dialogue with other regions, explain the Tibetan living system and civilization system in cross-regional cooperation, and summarize the general theory of Tibetan civilization.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 民族學與人類學專業知識與獨立研究能力
  * B. 獨立思考、批判論證與創新之能力
  * C. 分析問題、掌握議題和解決之能力
  * D. 學術對話與發表研究成果之能力
  * E. 注重專業價值、多元文化與學術倫理
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Western Tibetan studies has two traditions: one is the textual tradition. For example, at the end of the 19th century, they paid attention to the historical origins of Tibetan documents and their relationship with Sanskrit—this tradition has continued to this day; the other is concerned with people and society From the 1950s to the mid-1980s, Western scholars were unable to set foot in China’s Tibetan areas to do field research. They could only conduct field investigations on Tibetan communities in the outskirts of the Himalayas, using areas such as India and Nepal as field points, focusing on language, religion, literature, and society. Structure and other themes, and use this to reconstruct the overall schema of Tibetan traditional society. In recent years, Western studies of Himalayan and Tibet have turned to focus on globalized trade networks, cultural changes, symbolism, colonialism, and reflection and criticism of cultural hegemony.
The curriculum of the Anthropological and cultural-linguistic focus of the course is past and present-day Tibet. The four main topics are:
1.Buddhism society under the humanistic vision
2.The symbol and meaning of hierophany, materiality and material culture in early imperial Tibet
3.Buddhism and social transformation
4.Rethinking in the Buddhist society and the religious-political relationship
Social anthropological, art historical, architectural and Tibetological research is combined with materials-related assessments.Through more diversified and diversified perspectives, various topics and directions have been put forward to think about possible research paths of the combination of Tibetology and anthropology.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 參與校內外課程相關學習活動或社會服務Participation in on-campus or off-campus learning activities or community service related to the course  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 參與校內外課程相關學習活動或社會服務Participation in on-campus or off-campus learning activities or community service related to the course  
|  日期 |  課程內容與指定閱讀 |  教學活動與課前、課後作業 |  學生學習投入時間  
---|---|---|---  
Week 1 |  _Tibetological Anthropology_ ： _Tibet as a Methodology_ _Tibetan-Himalayan civilization_ |  Course Description: the whole course design and time arrangement. The knowledge production of the Social Sciences, and the future research plan. |  _Required Readings:_ Tucci,Gergoe，1990,Tibetan Painted Scrolls, Kyoto：Rinsen Book Co.,Ltd  Giuseppe Tucci, 2001, Tibet archeology, translated by Hong Kong, Beijing: China Tibetan studies press. Levine, Nancy E.1988 The Dynamics of Polyandry: Kinship, Domesticity, and Population on the Tibetan Border. Chicago: the University of Chicago Press. _Supplementary readings:_ Carrasco, Pedro,1959,Land And Polity In Tibet. Seattle: University of Washington Press. Mumford, Stan Royal 1989 Himalayan Dialogue :Tibetan Lamas and Gurung Shamans in Nepal. Madison, Wisconsin: the University of Wisconsin Press. Ortner, Sherry B 1970 Buddhism and Society: A Great Tradition and Its Burmese Vicissitudes. New York: Harper & Row.  
---  
3  
Week 2 |  228 Peace Memorial Day |  |  4  
Week 3 |  _Overview of International Tibetan Studies_ |  _Required Readings:_ Aziz, Barbara Nirmri 1978 Tibetan Frontier Families: Reflections of Three Generations from D'ing-ri. Durham: Carolina Academic Press. Ortner, Sherry B. 1989 High Religion: A Cultural and Political History of Sherpa Buddhism. Princton, N.J.: Princeton University Press.Paul, Ellen Frankel, Fred D. Miller, Jr., and Jeffrey Paul, eds. _Supplementary readings:_ Makley, Charlene. 2018. The Battle for Fortune: State-led Development, Personhood and Power among Tibetans in China : Cornell University Press |  4  
Week 4 |  _A Survey of Tibetan Studies in Taiwan_ |  _Required Readings:_ Fabienne Jagou,2021,Gongga Laoren (1903-1997) : Her Role in the Spread of Tibetan Buddhism in Taiwan. |  4  
Week 5 |  _Visit 1: Mongolian and Tibetan Cultural Center_ |   _Required Readings:_ Goldstein, Melvyn C. The Snow Lion and the Dragon: China, Tibet, and the Dalai Lama. Berkeley, Calif: University of California Press, 1997. Goldstein, Melvyn C. & Matthew T. Kapstein ,eds.1998 Buddhism in Contemporary Tibet :Religious Revival and Cultural Identity. Berkeley, California : University of California Press. Tsering Shakya, 1999, The Dragon in the Land of Snows: A History of Modern Tibet.New York : Columbia University Press.  _Supplementary readings:_ McGranahan, Carole. 2003. ‘Empire and the Status of Tibet: British, Chinese, and Tibetan Negotiations, 1913-1934’. In The History of Tibet, Volume 3: The Tibetan Encounter with Modernity, edited by Alex McKay, 267-295.  Goldstein, Melvyn C., Dawei Sherap, and William R. Siebenschuh ,2004， A Tibetan Revolutionary: The Political Life and Times of Bapa Phüntso Wangye. Berkeley, Calif.: University of California Press |  4  
Week 6 |  _From "cold society" to "hot society":Modern and Contemporary Process in Tibet_   
|   _Required Readings:_ Goldstein, Melvyn C. The Snow Lion and the Dragon: China, Tibet, and the Dalai Lama. Berkeley, Calif: University of California Press, 1997. Goldstein, Melvyn C. & Matthew T. Kapstein ,eds.1998 Buddhism in Contemporary Tibet :Religious Revival and Cultural Identity. Berkeley, California : University of California Press. Tsering Shakya, 1999, The Dragon in the Land of Snows: A History of Modern Tibet.New York : Columbia University Press.  _Supplementary readings:_ McGranahan, Carole. 2003. ‘Empire and the Status of Tibet: British, Chinese, and Tibetan Negotiations, 1913-1934’. In The History of Tibet, Volume 3: The Tibetan Encounter with Modernity, edited by Alex McKay, 267-295.  Goldstein, Melvyn C., Dawei Sherap, and William R. Siebenschuh ,2004， A Tibetan Revolutionary: The Political Life and Times of Bapa Phüntso Wangye. Berkeley, Calif.: University of California Press |  4  
Week 7 |  _Tomb-sweeping Day_ |  |   
Week 8 |  _The Guru as a Cultural Category_ |  Required Readings:Lopez, Jr., Donald S. Prisoners of Shangri-La, Tibetan Buddhism and the West. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1998.Schwieger, Peter. 2015. The Dalai Lama and the Emperor of China: A Political History of the Tibetan Institution of Reincarnation. New York: Columbia University Press. Supplementary readings:Goldstein, Melvyn C. & Matthew T. Kapstein ,eds.1998 Buddhism in Contemporary Tibet :Religious Revival and Cultural Identity. Berkeley, California : University of California Press.Tuttle, Gray 2005. Tibetan Buddhists in the Making of Modern China, Columbia UniversityLuciano Petech, 2008, "the nobility and government of Tibet", translated by Shen Weirong and Song Liming, published by Deng Ruiling school and the center of Tibetan studies.  |  4  
Week 9 |  _Tibetan Buddhist Politics Lecture_ |  Tibetan Buddhism under Political Transformations  |  4  
Week10 |  _Buddhist Material Culture and Museology_ _in Tibet_ |  _Required Readings:_ David Jackson, 2001, History of Tibet painting, Lhasa: Tibet people's publishing house. Harris, Clare. 1999. _In the Image of Tibet: Tibetan Painting after 1959._ London: Reaktion Books Ltd. Harris, Clare. 2012. _The Museum on the Roof of the World: Art, Politics, and the Representation of Tibet._ Chicago: University of Chicago Press. _Supplementary readings:_ Robert Beer, 2007, "Tibetan Buddhist symbols and utensils graphic", translated by Hong Hong, Beijing: China Tibetan studies press.  |  4  
Week 11 |  _Civilized Shamans_ ： _Tibet's Multiverse_ |  _Required Readings:_ Geoffrey Samuel , 1993, Civilized Shamans: Buddhism in Tibetan Societies, Smithsonian Institution Press Kapstein, Matthew The Tibetan Assimilation of Buddhism: Conversion, Contestation and Memory, Oxford: Oxford University Press. 2000 _Supplementary readings:_ Keyes, Charels F. & E. Valentine Daniel, 1983 Karma: an Anthropological Inquiry. Berkley, California: University of the California Press.  |  4  
Week 12 |  _Eco-spirituality_ _and_ _Eco-justice_ _in Tibet sacred natural sites_ |  _Required Readings:_ The Cult of Pure Crystal Mountain: Popular Pilgrimage and Visionary Landscape in Southeast Tibet, Oxford University Press, USA 1999 Toni Huber. The holy land reborn：Pilgrimage & the Tibetan reinvention of Buddhist India . The University of Chicago press.Chicago and London，2008. Yeh, Emily T. 2013. Taming Tibet: Landscape Transformation and the Gift of Chinese Development.Ithaca: Cornell University Press. Collins, Dawn. 2014. “Presence in Tibetan Landscapes: Spirited Agency and Ritual Healing in Rebgong.” PhD diss., Cardiff University. _Supplementary readings:_ Jinba, Tenzin. 2013. In the Land of the Eastern Queendom: The Politics of Gender and Ethnicity on the Sino-Tibetan Border. Seattle: University of Washington Press. Yeh, T, Emily and Gaerrang: Pests, keystone species, and hungry ghosts: the Gesar epic and human-pika relations on the Tibetan Plateau. Cultural Geographies 1–18.2020  |  6  
Week 13 |  _Geopolitics:__Lada_ _̄kh and Sino-Indian Civilization Corridor_ |  _Required Readings:_ Brill's Tibetan Studies Library English 2008,Edited by Martijn van Beek , Edited by Fernanda Pirie Modern Ladakh : Anthropological Perspectives on Continuity and Change _Supplementary readings:_ Peace and Conflict in Ladakh : The Construction of a Fragile Web of Order,2007 Fernanda Pirie |  4  
Week14 |  _Buddhism and Gender Studies_ ： _Dharma Protector Bandan Ram_ （དཔལ་ལྡན་ལྷ་མོ།） _and Tibetan women intellectuals_ |  _Required Readings:_ Diemberger, Hildegard 1993, Blood, Sperm,Soul and the mountain in Gendered Anthropology.ed.Teresa DelValle,London：Routledge. Janet Gyatso: 2015,Being Human in a Buddhist World: An Intellectual History of Medicine in Early Modern Tibet. Gyatso, Janet, and Hanna Havnevik, ed. 2005. _Women in Tibet._ New York: Columbia University Press.  Makley, Charlene. Speaking Bitterness: Autobiography,History, and Mnemonic Politics on the Sino-Tibetan Frontier. _Supplementary readings:_ Makley, Charlene. 2007. The Violence of Liberation: Gender and Tibetan Buddhist Revival in Post-Mao China. Berkeley: University of California Press.  Abu-Lughod, Lila. 2008. _Writing Women’s Worlds: Bedouin Stories._ Berkeley: University of California Press. Gutschow, Kim. 2009. _Being a Buddhist Nun._ Cambridge: Harvard University Press. |  4  
Week 15 |  _Dragon Boat Festival_ |  |   
Week 16 |  _Multiple modernity in Tibet_ |  _Required Readings:_ Jabb, Lama. 2015. Oral and Literary Continuities in Modern Tibetan Literature: The Inescapable Nation. Lanham, MD: Lexington Books. _Supplementary readings:_ Catanese, Alex John. 2019. _Buddha in the Marketplace: The Commodification of Buddhist Objects in Tibet._ Charlottesville: University of Virginia Press. |  4  
Week 17 |  _Second visit: Dalai Lama Foundation_ |  |  4  
Week 18 |  |  Presentations of your term paper ideas Term paper due－a 2,000 words essay on one of the above topics. |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.