國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：政治經濟學
#####  Course Name: Political Economy
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：260045001 Course No.260045001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：東亞碩一、東亞碩二 Course Department:East Asian Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：張珈健 Instructor: CHANG CHIA-CHIEN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三567 Session: wed14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
## Course Description
## 在現今的世局下，政治、經濟與安全因素交相碰撞的影響，已成為決定當代人類社會變遷的最重要力量。本課程的核心主旨，乃是引介 _國際政治經濟學_ 的理論與角度，探索當代 _全球化_ _與國家政治經濟互動等現象_ ，並偏重 _中國_ _在此結構背景下面臨的衝擊與構成_ _的_ _影響_ 。本課程透過系統性的引介相關理論架構與研究文獻，提供 _學生_ 發展知識體系，建立分析架構，並以此思考與中國的政治、經濟與社會相關的重大議題，進而協助學生培養感興趣的研究主題，進而設計並撰寫 _原創性的研究論文_ 。
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備資料統整與分析的知能
  * B. 具備國家政策規劃與比較的知能
  * C. 具備專業學術的基礎與比較的知能
  * D. 具備國際觀點與公民價值知能
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
本課程旨在運用國政經的理論與分析概念 ，以理解政治、經濟與安全決定因素 （例如國家與市場關係結構、制度、社會經濟互動、結構性壓力與地緣政治因素 ）如何影響相關經濟政策選擇與政治發展 。
本課程的學習目標包括：
  1. 獲得理論知識 ，並理解利益、制度、策略整合 與思想 在不同背景下的影響；
  2. 熟悉經濟與政治發展的概念性與實證性知識 ，並了解當地經濟發展過程及政治動態 ；
  3. 透過比較視角，並結合區域與全球脈絡 ，理解東亞、中國、印太地區及其他國家的經濟發展與政治影響 。
我們將嘗試運用利益、制度、策略互動與思想 ，並結合不同層次的分析方法 （個體、國內、體系）來探討政策決策的「成因」、選擇及其結果。
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 | 導論：何謂政治經濟學 (2/19) |  課程大綱介紹 主題：何謂政治經濟學 |  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  3  
2 | 政治經濟學的理論典範與研究方法 (2/26) | 
  * Robert Gilpin, 2001 _Global Political Economy_. [This is an updated version of Gilpin, _The Political Economy of International Relations_ , 1987.] Ch. 1-2
  * David Lake (2009), “Open Economy Politics: A Critical Review,” _Review of International Organizations_ 4:3, 219-244. 
  * Thomas Oatley (2011), “The Reductionist Gamble: Open Economy Politics in the Global Economy,” _International Organization_ 65:2 (Spring), 311-341. 
  * Hobson, J., & Seabrooke, L. (Eds.). (2007). _Everyday Politics of the World Economy_. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Ch.1 (Introduction) doi:10.1017/CBO9780511491375
  * Hafner-Burton, E. M., Haggard, S., Lake, D. A., & Victor, D. G. (2017). The Behavioral Revolution and International Relations.  _International Organization_ ,  _71_(S1), S1–S31. http://www.jstor.org/stable/44651962
  * Davis, J. W., & McDermott, R. (2021). The Past, Present, and Future of Behavioral IR.  _International Organization_ ,  _75_(1), 147–177. https://www.jstor.org/stable/27104630
|  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
3 | 國際貿易的政治經濟學 (3/5) | 
  * *Michael Hiscox (2001), “Class Versus Industry Cleavages: Inter-Industry Factor Mobility and the Politics of Trade,” _International Organization_ 55:1 (Winter), 1-46. 
  * *Helen Milner with Keiko Kubota (2005), “Why the Move to Free Trade? Democracy and Trade Policy in the Developing Countries,” _International Organization_ 59:1 (Winter), 107-143. 
  * *Gowa, Joanne S., and Edward D. Mansfield. 1993. “Power Politics and International Trade.” _American Political Science Review_ 87 (2): 408–20. (12 pp.)
  * *Diana C. Mutz and Eunji Kim, “The Impact of In-Group Favoritism on Trade Preferences,” International Organization 71, no. 4 (ed 2017): 827–50.
  * Rogowski R. Political Cleavages and Changing Exposure to Trade.  _American Political Science Review_. 1987;81(4):1121-1137. doi:10.2307/1962581
  * Matthew DiGiuseppe & Katja B. Kleinberg (2019) Economics, security, and individual-level preferences for trade agreements,  _International Interactions_ , 45:2, 289-315, DOI: 10.1080/03050629.2019.1551007
  * Jeffry Frieden, Attitudes, Interests, and the Politics of Trade: A Review Article,  _Political Science Quarterly_ , Volume 137, Issue 3, Fall 2022, Pages 569–588, https://doi.org/10.1002/polq.13360
# Brutger, R., Chaudoin, S. & Kagan, M. "Trade Wars and Election Interference."  _Rev Int Organ_ 18 , 1–25 (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/s11558-022-09464-2 |  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
4 | 國際金融與金融危機的政治經濟學 (3/12) | 
  * *Jeffry Frieden (1991), “Invested Interests: The Politics of National Economic Policies in a World of Global Finance,” _International Organization_ 45:4 (Autumn), 425-451.
  * *Simmons BA. Rulers of the game: central bank independence during the interwar years.  _International Organization_. 1996;50(3):407-443. doi:10.1017/S0020818300033439; or 
    * *Best, J. (2025). The fragility of depoliticization: revisiting the history of Central bank inflation-management.  _Review of International Political Economy_ , 1–27. https://doi.org/10.1080/09692290.2024.2444365
  * *Lee, Y. W., & Lim, K. (2024). Status quo crisis again? RMB challenges and dollar hegemony.  _New Political Economy_ ,  _29_(5), 709–732. https://doi.org/10.1080/13563467.2024.2332348
  * *Lipscy, Phillip Y. 2018. “Democracy and Financial Crisis.” _International Organization_ 72 (04): 937–68. (31 pp.)
  * *Lipscy, Phillip Y. and Lee, Haillie Na-Kyung 2019. “The IMF As a Biased Global Insurance Mechanism: Asymmetrical Moral Hazard, Reserve Accumulation, and Financial Crises.” _International Organization_ , Vol. 73, Issue. 02, p. 489.
  * Frieden, Jeffry A. 2015. “Chapter 1: Introduction: The Political Economy of Currency Choice,” _Currency Politics: The Political Economy of Exchange Rate Policy_. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. (http://press.princeton.edu/chapters/i10364.pdf). (18 pp.)
  * J. Lawrence Broz and Seth H. Werfel, “Exchange Rates and Industry Demands for Trade Protection,” _International Organization_ , 68 (2014), pp 393-416
  * Stephen C Nelson and Peter J Katzenstein. Uncertainty, risk, and the financial crisis of 2008. _International Organization_ , 68(2):361-392, 2014.
  * Quinn DP, Sattler T, Weymouth S. Do Exchange Rates Influence Voting? Evidence from Elections and Survey Experiments in Democracies.  _International Organization_. 2023;77(4):789-823. doi:10.1017/S002081832300022X
# J. Bradford Jensen, Dennis P. Quinn and Stephen Weymouth, “The Influence of Firm Global Supply Chains and Foreign Currency Undervaluations on US Trade Disputes,” _International Organization_ , 69(2015), pp 913-947 #Cohen, B. J. (2015). _Currency power: understanding monetary rivalry_. Princeton: Princeton University Press. Ch. 1 & 3;  #Benjamin J. Cohen, _Currency Statecraft_(Chicago University Press, 2019)t, ch. 1-3. |  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
5 | 科技發展的政治經濟學（3/19） | 
  * *ACEMOGLU D, ROBINSON JA. Economic Backwardness in Political Perspective.  _American Political Science Review_. 2006;100(1):115-131. doi:10.1017/S0003055406062046; or (for people like a more technical paper, see following) 
    * *Acemoglu, D. (2025). _Institutions, technology and prosperity_ (Working Paper No. 33442). National Bureau of Economic Research. https://www.nber.org/papers/w33442
  * *Kennedy, A. B. (2024). The process of paradigm change: the rise of guided innovation in China.  _Review of International Political Economy_ ,  _31_(4), 1220–1244. https://doi.org/10.1080/09692290.2023.2280974
  * *Ding, J. (2023). The diffusion deficit in scientific and technological power: re-assessing China’s rise.  _Review of International Political Economy_ ,  _31_(1), 173–198. https://doi.org/10.1080/09692290.2023.2173633
  * *Malkin, A., & He, T. (2023). The geoeconomics of global semiconductor value chains: extraterritoriality and the US-China technology rivalry.  _Review of International Political Economy_ ,  _31_(2), 674–699. https://doi.org/10.1080/09692290.2023.2245404
  * *Vaynman J, Volpe TA. Dual Use Deception: How Technology Shapes Cooperation in International Relations.  _International Organization_. 2023;77(3):599-632. doi:10.1017/S0020818323000140 
  * Seth Schindler, Ilias Alami, Jessica DiCarlo, Nicholas Jepson, Steve Rolf, Mustafa Kemal Bayırbağ, Louis Cyuzuzo, Meredith DeBoom, Alireza F. Farahani, Imogen T. Liu, Hannah McNicol, Julie T. Miao, Philip Nock, Gilead Teri, Maximiliano Facundo Vila Seoane, Kevin Ward, Tim Zajontz & Yawei Zhao (2023) The Second Cold War: US-China Competition for Centrality in Infrastructure, Digital, Production, and Finance Networks,  _Geopolitics_ , DOI: 10.1080/14650045.2023.2253432
  * Dauvergne, P. (2020). Is artificial intelligence greening global supply chains? Exposing the political economy of environmental costs.  _Review of International Political Economy_ ,  _29_(3), 696–718. https://doi.org/10.1080/09692290.2020.1814381
|  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
6 | 專題演講：美中科技競爭與貿易戰 (3/27) |  專題演講：Make Chips Great Again? Silicon Shield 2.0 under Trumpism. By Dr. Chou Kuan-chu (Jack Chou) | Take-Home Mid-Term Exam |  |  48 |  8~12  
7 |  NO CLASS Children’s Day, Qingming Festival (4/2) | 清明節、婦幼節連續假期 | NO CLASS |  |  |   
8 | 期中考 (4/9) |  期中考 | Guest Lecture & Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
9 | 專題演講：移民的政治經濟學 (4/16) | 
  * Peng, Ito, and Joseph Wong. 2010. "East Asia." In The Oxford Handbook of the Welfare State edited by Stephan Leibfried Francis G. Castles, Jane Lewis, Herbert Obinger, and Christopher Pierson, 656-670. Oxford, New York: Oxford
  * Peng, Ito, and Yi-Chun Chien. 2018 "Not all in the same family: Diverging approaches to family policy in East Asia" Handbook of Family Policy. Edward Elgar Publishing. . Song, Jiyeoun.
  * 2015. "Labour markets, care regimes and foreign care worker policies in East Asia." Social Policy & Administration 49 (3):376-393.
|  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
10 |  Development and FDI(4/23) | 
  * Nita Rudra (2002), “Globalization and the Decline of the Welfare State in Less-Developed Countries,” _International Organization_ 56:2 (Spring), 411-445. 
  * Li, Quan and Adam Resnick. 2003. “Reversal of Fortunes: Democratic Institutions and Foreign Direct Investment Inflows to Developing Countries.” _International Organization_ 57 (1): 175- 211. 
  * Quan Li and Adam Resnick (2003), “Reversal of Fortunes: Democratic Institutions and Foreign Direct Investment Inflows to Developing Countries,” _International Organization_ 57:1 (Winter), 175-211. 
|  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
11 |  Environment and Resource Curse (4/30) | 
  * Halvor Mehlum, Karl Moene, and Ragnar Torvik (2006), “Cursed by Resources or Institutions?,” _The World Economy_ 29:8 (August), 1117-1131. 
  * Jennifer Clapp and Eric Helleiner (2012), “International Political Economy and the Environment: Back to the Basics?,” _International Affairs_ 88:3 (May), 485-501. 
  * Brooks, Sarah M., and Marcus J. Kurtz. 2016. “Oil and Democracy: Endogenous Natural Resources and the Political ‘Resource Curse.’” I _nternational Organization_ 70 (2): 279–311
  * Solingen, Etel, "Pax Asiatica versus Bella Levantina: The Foundations of War and Peace in East Asia and the Middle East."  _American Political Science Review_ Vol. 101, No. 4 (November 2007).
#Dreher, Axel, Andreas Fuchs, Brad Parks, Austin M. Strange, and Michael J. Tierney. 2018. “Apples and Dragon Fruits: The Determinants of Aid and Other Forms of State Financing from China to Africa.” _International Studies Quarterly_ 62 (1): 182–94. (12 pp.) |  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
12 |  International Governance (5/7) | 
  * Charles Kindleberger, _The world in depression 1929-1939_ (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1973), ch.1, 14
  * Robert O. Keohane, 1984. _After Hegemony: Cooperation and Discord in the World Political Economy_ Princeton: Princeton University Press,), pp.65-109. 
  * Drezner, Dan. 2014. “The System Worked: Global Economic Governance During the Great Recession.” _World Politics_ 66 (1): 123-164.
#Drezner, D. (2020). The Song Remains the Same: International Relations After COVID-19. _International Organization_ , 1-18.  #Allison, Graham T. 2015. “The Thucydides Trap: Are the U.S. and China Headed for War?” The Atlantic. Copy at http://www.tinyurl.com/y6dep3nl #Nye, Joseph.“The Kindleberger Trap.”  _Project Syndicate,_ January 9, 2017 |  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
13 |  Economic Inequality and Crypto-Currency (5/14) | 
  * Rajan, Raghuram. 2010. _Fault lines: how hidden fractures still threaten the world economy_. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press. Intro & Ch.1
  * Kumhof et al.(Kumhof, Michael., Claire Lebarz, Romain Rancière, Alexander W. Richter, and Nathaniel A. Throckmorton). 2012. “Income Inequality and Current Account Imbalances.” (January 2012). _IMF Working Paper_ No. 12/8. Available at SSRN:  _http://ssrn.com/abstract=2613291_
  * Hyoung-kyu Chey. 2022. Cryptocurrencies and the IPE of money: an agenda for research. _Review of International Political Economy_. https://doi.org/10.1080/09692290.2022.2109188
|  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
14 | 全校運動會（放假） |  No Class |  Seminar discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
15 | 
  1. 國家安全的政治經濟學
  2. 全球政治經濟秩序的未來 (5/28)
| 
  * Farrell, Henry and Abraham Newman. 2019. ‘Weaponized Interdependence: How Global Economic Networks Shape Global Coercion.’ _International Security_. 44: 1. Summer. Pp. 42-79
  * Stephen E. Gent and Mark J.C. Crescenzi. 2021._Market Power Politics: War, Institutions, and Strategic Delay in World Politics_. Oxford University Press
  * Queralt, D. (2019). War, International Finance, and Fiscal Capacity in the Long Run. _International Organization_ , 73(4), 713-753. doi:10.1017/S0020818319000250
  * Schultz, Kenneth and Barry Weingast. 2003. “The Democratic Advantage: The Institutional Sources of State Power in International Competition” _International Organization_ 57 (winter): 3-42
  * Beth Simmons, Frank Dobbin, and Geoffrey Garrett (2008), “Introduction: The Diffusion of Liberalism,” in Beth Simmons, Frank Dobbin, and Geoffrey Garrett, eds. (2008), _The Global Diffusion of Markets and Democracy_ , 1-63.
  * Rodrik, D. (2011). _The globalization paradox: why global markets, states, and democracy can't coexist_. New York: Oxford University Press. Ch7. 
|  Seminar discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
16 |  Conclusion & Presentation Week (6/7) |  Presentation Week |  Student Final Presentation |  |  3 |  24  
17 |  Paper writing |  Paper Writing |  Paper Writing |  |  3 |  24  
18 |  18 |  FINAL PAPER Week |  Final Paper Submission NO CLASS |  NO CLASS |  3 |  12  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.