國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：爭辯中的人類安全：正義、平等、人道與人權
#####  Course Name: Debating Human Security: Justice, Equality, Humanity and Rights
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：260739001 Course No.260739001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：東亞碩一、東亞博一 Course Department:East Asian Studies/G/1 
  * 授課老師：王韻 Instructor: WANG YUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
Human security is a new interdisciplinary topic that originates from two groups of literature: human rights and international security. The first group is full of practitioners and theorists who care about justice, humanity, and equality, mainly in the battles of defending human rights in the developing world. The second group gathers the best minds of security experts, policy-makers, and strategic analysts who are delicate to defend the peace, stability, and sustainability of the world, which, arguably, relies on the actions of the developed world. This somehow chaotic and self-contradictory nature makes this topic one of the most fascinating and debatable developments in the IR field. Students here will first learn various definitions and theories from two sub-disciplines. Then they will be introduced to case studies in two very different worlds. The final goal is to help students to build their own perspectives on selected issue areas: human rights, just war, humanitarian issues, trade and immigration, and sustainable politics. The semester is divided into five issue blocks and each block contains roughly one class on debates popular in the developed world and one case on practices in the developing world.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備國家政策規劃與比較的知能
  * B. 具備國際觀點與公民價值知能
  * C. 具備專業學術的基礎與比較的知能
  * D. 具備資料統整與分析的知能
  * E. 具備資料統整與分析的知能
  * F. 具備專業學術與比較研究的知能
  * G. 具備政策規劃與比較的知能
  * H. 具備國際觀點與公民價值知能
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The main methods of this class are Cooperative Learning and Self-Direct Learning. Starting from the second week, each student will participate in an *expert group and a *case group. Each expert group is responsible for formulating a reading list and to LEAD a class section in one of the five topics in the given week. Each case group, consisting students from different expert groups, is responsible to organize and write a human security * guidebook to a developing country. Case groups will present their work and ideas in the final weeks. In addition, students will self-design a City Wanderer© challenge activity and experience directly justice, equality, humanity, and human rights in their own fashion and perspective.
Individual Tasks
There is 30% of the total course evaluation depending on personal understanding of assigned materials and individual participation. Students are required to attend all classes and fully participate in class activities. You will receive points for class participation, and excessive absences could adversely affect your final grade.
(1) In-class exercises : formats and grades are assigned by expert groups
(2) City Wanderer© report : the activity should begin in Week 7 and concluded in Week 9
Group Tasks
Students should rank to the five research blocks according to individual interests. The choice should be made before the second class. I will assign students with similar interests to form five study groups. If too many people choose the same focus then the instructor will make proper arrangement. Those groups have three important tasks:
(1) Expert section: Expert groups are responsible for providing readings, questions, and exercises or quizzes for the second class of each block; a brief summary and outlines should be sent to instructor a day before the class.
(2) Human security *guidebook : Each study group should choose a developing country to write a human security report. The proposal is due on Week 7. The division of the group and labor has to be approved by the instructor. Office meeting after midterm is strongly recommended.
(3) Presentation : In the last day of class, we will have group presentations and discussion about the five case study projects. The grade of each group will be co-judged by instructor, a guest speaker, and other groups. Multimedia, play or any other creative way of presentation is encouraged.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
DATE |  READING ASSIGNMENTS |  TOPICS TO BE COVERED  
---|---|---  
W1  | 
  1. Introduction
TED Talk video: Meg Jay “Why 30 is not the new 20,” | 
  1. Overview of the syllabus
  2. What are justice, equality, humanity and rights?
  3. How can “you” do about them?
W2  | 
  1. Kaldor, ch.5 A Decade of Humanitarian Intervention,
  2. Owen and Liotta, 2006. “Why Human Security?” _Whitehead Journal of Diplomacy and International Relations_ Vol VII, No. 1: 37-55.
  3. *Roland Paris, “Human Security: Paradigm Shift or Hot Air,” _International Security_ , Vol. 26, N. 2, Fall 2001: 87-102. 
  4. *PJ Burgess and Owen, “What is ‘Human Security’? Comments by 21 Authors” _Security Dialogue_ , Vol. 35, No. 3, September 2004: 345-72.
  5. YouTube Video: New War 2.0: Interview with Kaldor
| 
  1. Are there universal standards of justice, equality and rights?
  2. What is human security?
  3. Group preference due
(* are recommended readings)  
| 
  1. Human Rights
|  (Universality and Rights)  
W3  | 
  1. Kaldor, ch.2 or Kaldor 2003 “American Power from Compellance to Cosmopolitanism”
  2. Gary King and Christpher Murray, “Rethinking Human Security”
  3. *Donnelly, Jack. 2007. “The Relative Universality of Human Rights” _Human Rights Quarterly_ 29(2)
  4. *Goodhart, Michael. 2008. “Neither Relative nor Universal: A Response to Donnelly” _Human Rights Quarterly_ 30(1): 183-193
| 
  1. Who’s security? Measurement of human security
  2. Universal rights?
  3. Cultural rights? 
  4. Political rights and socioeconomic rights, which one should be first?
W4  | 
  1. Thompson, Mark R.. “Pacific Asia after 'Asian Values': Authoritarianism, Democracy, and 'Good Governance'.” _Third World Quarterly_ , Vol. 25, No. 6 (2004), pp. 1079-1095.
  2. Osofsky, Hari M.. “Understanding ‘Hostage-Diplomacy’: The Release of Wei Jingsheng and Wang Dan” _Yale Human Rights & Development Law Journal_ 1 (1998).
  3. * Wachman, Alan. “Does the Diplomacy of Shame Promote Human Rights in China?” _Third World Quarterly_(2001).
| 
  1. Expert Section 1
  2. Human Rights: the East and the West 
  3. Asian values
  4. Case: Hostage diplomacy
  5. Exercise/Quiz 1
| 
  1. Just War
|  (Stability and Responsibility)  
W5 | 
  1. Kaldor, Chapter 6 From Just War to Just Peace
  2. Owen, 2011, “R2P: More than a slogan”
  3. *Weiss, Thomas “The Sunset of Humanitarian Intervention? The R2P in a Unipolar Era,” _Security Dialogue_ , 2004 35: 2: 135-153. 
  4. *Deitelhoff, Nicole, 2009. "The Discursive Process of Legalization: Charting Islands of Persuasion in the ICC Case," _International Organization_ , 63(01): 33-65.
  5. *ICRC, “International Humanitarian Law in Brief”
  6. *Human Rights Watch, “Selling Justice Short,” 2009.
  7. *Scott Strauss, “Darfur and the Genocide Debate” _Foreign Affairs_ , January/February 2005
  8. *Kenneth Roth, "The Law of War in the War on Terror," _Foreign Affairs_ , January/February 2004.
  9. *_Contexto International,_ 2019.
| 
  1. Biopolitics
  2. SARS, MERS, Ebola, COVID-19 and more
  3. Biological security vs. Human rights
  4. What is City Wanderer?
W6  | 
  1. Group 2 Presentation and Discussion
  2. TBA
| 
  1. Expert Section 2
  2. Exercise/Quiz 2
W7  | 
  1. City Wanderer discussion
CITY WANDERER© BEGIN | 
  1. Prepare City Wanderer projects 
| 
  1. Humanitarian Issues
|  (Issues of Justice and Humanity)  
W8 | 
  1. Michael Dillon, “Biopolitics of Security” in _Handbook of New Security Studies_ (2010)
  2. Stefan Elbe, “Pandemic Security” in _Handbook of New Security Studies_ (2010)
  3. Christian Enemark, “Is Pandemic Flu a Security Threat?” _Survival (_ 2009)
  4. Stefan Elbe, "AIDS, Security, Biopolitics _," International Relations_(2005)
  5. Multimedia: Pandemic Online game
  6. Movies: _Contagion_ (2011)
| 
  1. Just war theory and humanitarian intervention
  2. UN human security institutions
  3. R2P 
  4. Landmine ban movement and transnational advocacy
W9 | 
  1. Midterm Week
CITY WANDERER© REPORT DUE AND SHARING | 
  1. Case Study topic discussion
W10  | 
  1. Kaldor, Chapter 5 or Kaldor 2003, “The idea of global civil society” 
  2. Don Hubert, “The Landmine Treaty: A Case Study in Humanitarian Advocacy _,__”_
  3. *Thomas Weiss, 2006, “Principles, Politics, and Humanitarian Action” _Ethics & International Affairs_ 13(1)
| 
  1. Expert Section 3
  2. Case: Global Civil Society and Cosmopolitanism
  3. Just war theory in test: China or Africa
  4. Just war theory in test: torture
  5. Exercise/Quiz 3
| 
  1. TradeandImmigration
|  (Development and Equality)  
W11  | 
  1. (Video)_The Travels of a T-Shirt in the Global Economy_
  2. Wu, Guoguang.
  3. *Tarrow, Sidney G. 2005. _The_ _New Transnational Activism_ , New York: Cambridge University Press. Ch.1-2.
  4. *Yong Deng and Thomas G. Moore, “China Views Globalization: Toward a New Great-Power Politics?” _The Washington Quarterly_ , 27 (3) (Summer 2004): 117 – 136.
GROUP CASE PAPER TOPIC DUE | 
  1. Globalization: its promises and opposition
  2. Anti-globalization activism
  3. MNCs and “race to the bottom”
  4. Case: China’s view toward globalization
W12  | 
  1. Peggy Levitt,"’ You Know, Abraham Was Really the First Immigrant’: Religion and Transnational Migration” _International Migration Review_ , 37(3), Transnational Migration: International Perspectives (Fall, 2003): 847-873. 
  2. *Cohen, Robin. 1997. _Global Diasporas: An Introduction_. Seattle: Univ. of Washington Press.
| 
  1. Expert Section 4
  2. Immigration: a cultural right or economic right?
  3. Freedom of immigration?
  4. Exercise/Quiz 4
| 
  1. SustainablePolitics
|  (Issues of Suitability)  
W13 | 
  1. Tim Hayward, 2007. “Human Rights versus Emissions Rights: Climate Justice and the Equitable Distribution of Ecological Space,” _Ethics and International Affairs_ 21.4.
  2. *Tarrow, Sidney G.; Donatella Della Porta, 2005b. _Transnational Protest and Global Activism_ ‎ (print)
  3. *Romina Picolotti & Jorge Daniel Taillant eds. _Linking Human Rights and the Environment_. 2003
TED Talk by Paul Piff: Does Money Make You Mean | 
  1. Principal-agent theory
  2. Kyoto Protocol
  3. Environmental rights
W14  | 
  1. Xie, 2011, “China's Environmental Activism in the Age of Globalization,” _Asian Politics & Policy_ 3(2): 207–224.
  2. *Abigail R. Jahiel “The Organization of Environmental Protection in China,” _The China Quarterly_ : 757-787.
| 
  1. Expert Section 5
  2. Environmental activism in China
  3. Exercise/Quiz 5
W15  | 
  1. Owen Taylor and Mary Martin, 2010. “The Second Generation of Human Security: Lessons from the UN and EU Experiences?” _International Affairs_ , 85(1).
  2. *Owen, Taylor, 2008. The Critique that Doesn’t Bite: A Response to David Chandler’s “Human Security: The Dog that didn’t Bark” _Security Dialogue_ , 39(4), April/June 2008.
  3. *Caprioli, Mary, “Democracy and Human Rights Versus Women’s Security: A Contradiction?” _Security Dialogue_ 2004 35(4): 411-428.
  4. *Emilie Hafner-Burton and Kiyoteri Tsutsui, “Justice Lost!: The Failure of International Human Rights Law to Matter Where it is Needed Most” _Journal of Peace Research_(2007): 407-25.
  5. *Emilie Hafner-Burton and James Ron, “Seeing Double”
| 
  1. Review: Justice, Equality, Humanity and Rights
  2. Second Generation HS
  3. Feminist view on HS
W16  | 
  1. Group Assignment Discussion and Preparation 
| 
  1. TBA
W17  | 
  1. Group Presentation 
| 
  1. TBA
W28 |  Final Exam Week |  GROUP PAPER DUE  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.