國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：中國政治經濟
#####  Course Name: Chinese Political Economy
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：260872001 Course No.260872001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：東亞碩一、東亞博一 Course Department:East Asian Studies/G/1 
  * 授課老師：劉致賢 Instructor: LIOU CHIH-SHIAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二567 Session: tue14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
This graduate seminar offers a broad introduction to the field of political economy of contemporary China. It examines the main theoretical and methodological approaches to the study of Chinese economic reform. After more than three decades of reform, China has become one of the economic powerhouses in the world today. In the course of reforming its economy, China has experienced the fastest economic growth and social transformation in human history. To what extent, however, does China’s development follow the orthodox recipes prescribed by the literature of political economy? What exactly is the source of China’s economic growth for the past three decades? What is the current state of the market institutions in China? How do we interpret China’s ascendency economically and politically?
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備資料統整與分析的知能
  * B. 具備國家政策規劃與比較的知能
  * C. 具備專業學術的基礎與比較的知能
  * D. 具備國際觀點與公民價值知能
  * E. 具備資料統整與分析的知能
  * F. 具備專業學術與比較研究的知能
  * G. 具備政策規劃與比較的知能
  * H. 具備國際觀點與公民價值知能
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
To answer the preceding questions from the perspective of political science, the seminar has three main goals: (1) to familiarize students with empirical knowledge related to China's development; (2) to provide students with theoretical tools to analyze Chinese political economy; and (3) to hone students’ analytical skills and improve their writing and presentation skills.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 8 週 Week 8 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
WEEK 1 ( ) Introduction
_Suggested Reading_
Henry Kissinger. 2011. _On China._ New York: The Penguin Press.
Ezra F. Vogel. 2011. _Deng Xiaoping and the Transformation of China_. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Henry M. Paulson. 2015. _Dealing with China: An Insider Unmasks the New Economic Superpower._ New York: Twelve.
WEEK 2 ( ) Overview: The Current State of the China Field
_Required Reading_
Kevin J. O’Brien. 2018. “Speaking to Theory and Speaking to the China Field.” _Issues and Studies_ 54(4):184007-1-16.
Scott Kennedy. 2011. “Overcoming Our Middle Kingdom Complex: Finding China’s Place in Comparative Politics.” In Scott Kennedy, ed., _Beyond the Middle Kingdom: Comparative Perspectives on China’s Capitalist Transformation_. Palo Alto: Stanford University Press.
Kellee, S. Tsai. 2013. “China’s Political Economy and Political Science.” _Perspectives on Politics_ 11(3): 860-871.
Lily L. Tsai. 2017. “Bring in China: Insights for Building Comparative Political Theory.” _Comparative Political Studies_ 50(3): 295-328.
_Suggested Reading_
Elizabeth J. Perry. 2007. “Studying Chinese Politics: Farewell to Revolution?” _The China Journal_ 57 (January): 1-22.
Allen Carlson, Mary E. Gallagher, and Melanie Manion. Eds. 2010. _Contemporary Chinese Politics: New Sources, Methods, and Field Strategies_. New York: Cambridge University Press.
WEEK 3 ( ) The Initiation and Process of Economic Reform
_Required Reading_
Dali L. Yang. 1996. “Governing China’s Transition to the Market: Institutional Incentives, Politicians’ Choices, and Unintended Outcomes.” _World Politics_ 48(3): 424-452.
Shu-Yun Ma. 2000. “Understanding China’s Reform: Looking beyond Neoclassical Explanations,” _World Politics_ 52(4): pp. 586-603.
Barry Naughton. 2007. _The Chinese Economy: Transitions and Growth_. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press, Chapter 4. (ebook)
_Suggested Reading_
Susan Shirk. 1993. The Political Logic of Economic Reform in China. Berkeley & Los Angeles: University of California Press.
Barry Naughton. 1995. _Growing Out of the Plan: Chinese Economic Reform, 1978-1993_. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Arthur R. Kroeber. 2016. _China’s Economy: What Everyone Needs to Know_. New York: Oxford University Press.
WEEK 4 ( ) The Rural Economy
_Required Reading_
Jean C. Oi. 1999. _Rural China Takes Off: Institutional Foundations of Economic Reform_. Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press. Chapters 1-2.
James Kai-sing Kung and Yi-min Lin. 2007. “The Decline of Township-and Village Enterprises in China’s Economic Transition.” _World Development_ 35(4): 569-84.
Xueguang Zhou. 2011. “The Autumn Harvest: Peasants and Markets in Post-Collective Rural China,” _The China Quarterly_ 208: 913-931.
_Suggested Reading_
Susan Whiting. 1999. _Power and Wealth in Rural China: The Political Economy of Institutional Change_. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Jean C. Oi. 1991. _State and Peasant in Contemporary China: The Political Economy of Village Government._ Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press.
Yiqing Xu and Yang Yao. 2015. “Informal Institutions, Collective Action, and Public Investment in Rural China,” _American Political Science Review_ 109(2): 371-391.
Daniel Mattingly. 2016. “Elite Capture: How Decentralization and Informal Institutions Weaken Property Rights in China.” _World Politics_ 68(3): 383-412.
WEEK 5 ( ) The Urban Economy
_Required Reading_
Edward S. Steinfeld. 1999. _Forging Reform in China: The Fate of State-owned Industry_. New York: Cambridge University Press, Chapter 1.
Meg Rithmire. 2017. “Land Institutions and Chinese Political Economy: Institutional Complementarities and Macroeconomic Management." _Politics & Society_ 45 (1): 123-153.
Xiaoxiao Shen and Kellee S. Tsai. 2016. “Institutional Adaptability in China: Local Developmental Models under Changing Economic Conditions.” _World Development_ 87: 107-127.
_Suggested Reading_
Yimin Lin and Tian Zhu. 2001. “Ownership Restructuring in Chinese State Industry.” _The China Quarterly_ 166: 305-41.
Carsten A. Holz. 2001. “Economic Reforms and State Sector Bankruptcy in China,” _The _China Quarterly__ 166: 342-67.
Chen Li. 2016. “Holding ‘China Inc.’ Together: The CCP and the Rise of China’s _Yangqi_.” _China Quarterly_ 228: 927-949.
WEEK 6 ( ) State Capitalism and China
_Required Reading_
Lin, Li-Wen and Curtis J. Milhaupt. 2013. “We are the (National) Champions: Understanding the Mechanisms of State Capitalism in China,” _Stanford Law Review_ 65: 697-759.
Kellee. S. Tsai and Barry Naughton. 2015. “State Capitalism and the Chinese Economic Miracle,” in Barry Naughton and Kellee S. Tsai, eds., _State Capitalism, Institutional Adaptation, and the Chinese Miracle._ New York, NY: Cambridge University Press.
劉致賢，「中國國家資本主義：一個新的政治經濟學研究議程」， _台灣政治學刊_ ，第19卷第2期(2015)，頁41-80。
_Suggested Reading_
Also Musacchio and Sergio G. Lazzarini. 2014. _Reinventing State Capitalism: Leviathan in Business, Brazil and Beyond_. Cambridge: Harvard University Press.
Sarah Eaton. 2016. _The Advance of the State in Contemporary China: State-Market Relations in the Reform Era_. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
Benjamin L. Liebman and Curtis J. Milhaupt. Eds. 2016. _Regulating the Visible Hand? The Institutional Implications of Chinese State Capitalism_. New York: Oxford University Press.
Xi Li, Xuewen Liu, and Yong Wang. 2015. “A Model of China’s State Capitalism.” Working Paper, https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract-id=2061521.
WEEK 7 ( ) The Private Sector
_Required Reading_
Kellee Tsai. 2005. “Capitalists without a Class: Political Diversity among Private Entrepreneurs in China.” _Comparative Political Studies_ 39 (November): 1130-1158.
Bruce J. Dickson. 2008. Wealth into Power: The Communist Party’s Embrace of China’s Private Sector. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, Chapter 1.
Victor Nee and Sonja Opper. 2012. _Capitalism from Below: Markets and Institutional Change in China._ Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, Chapters 1-2.
_Suggested Reading_
Kellee S. Tsai. 2002. _Back-Alley Banking: Private Entrepreneurs in China_. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
Bruce J. Dickson. 2003. _Red Capitalists in China: The Party, Private Entrepreneurs, and Prospect for Political Change_. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Nicholas R. Lardy, 2014. _Markets over Mao: The Rise of Private Business in China_. Washington, D.C.: Peterson Institute for International Economics.
WEEK 8 ( ) China’s Regulatory State
_Required Reading_
Margaret M. Pearson. 2005. “The Business of Governing Business in China: Institutions and Norms of the Emerging Regulatory State.” _World Politics_ 57(2): 296-322.
Yukyung Yeo. 2009. “Between Owner and Regulator: Governing the Business of China’s Telecommunications Service Industry.” _The China Quarterly_ 200: 1013-1032.
Chung-min Tsai. 2014. “Regulating China's Power Sector: Creating an Independent Regulator without Autonomy.” _The China Quarterly_ 218: 452-473.
_Suggested Reading_
Dali L. Yang. 2004.  _Remaking the Chinese Leviathan: Market Transition and the Politics of Governance in China_ _.__Stanford, C.A.: Stanford University Press_ _, Chapters 2, 5, and 6._
Roselnyn Hsueh. 2011. _China’s Regulatory State: A New Strategy for Globalization_. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
WEEK 9 ( ) Mid-term Review
_Research topic and research question due!!_
WEEK 10 ( ) Tax Reform
_Required Reading_
Thomas P. Bernstein and Xiaobo Lű. 2003. _Taxation without Representation in Contemporary Rural China_. New York: Cambridge University Press, Chapters 1 & 8. (ebook)
Hongbin Cai and Daniel Treisman. 2006. “Did Government Decentralization Cause China’s Economic Miracle?” _World Politics_ 58(4): 505-535.
An Chen. 2014. “How Has the Abolition of Agricultural Taxes Transformed Village Governance in China? Evidence from Agricultural Regions.” _The China Quarterly_ 219: 715-735.
_Suggested Reading_
Yingyi Qian, Hehui Jin, and Barry R. Weingast. 2005. “Regional Decentralization and Fiscal Incentives: Federalism, Chinese Style.” _Journal of Public Economics_ 89(9-10): 1719-1742.
Jing Vivian Zhan. 2011. “Explaining Central Intervention in Local Extra-Budgetary Practices in China.” _Asian Survey_ 51(3): 497-519.
WEEK 11 ( ) The Financial System
_Required Reading_
Edward S. Steinfeld. 2002. “Moving beyond Transition in China: Financial Reform and the Political Economy of Declining Growth,” _Comparative Politics_ 34(4): 379-98.
Sebastian Heilmann. 2005. “Regulatory Innovation by Leninist Means: Communist Party Supervision in China’s Financial Industry.” _The China Quarterly_ 181: 1-21.
Victor Shih. 2007. “Partial Reform Equilibrium, Chinese Style: Political Incentives and Reform Stagnation in Chinese Financial Policies.” _Comparative Political Studies_ 40(10): 1238-1262.
Richard W. Carney. 2012. “Political Hierarchy and Finance: The Politics of China's Financial Development.” In Andrew Walter and Xiaoke Zhang, eds., _East Asian Capitalism: Diversity,_ _Continuity, and Change_. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
_Suggested Reading_
Nicholas Lardy. 1998. _China’s Unfinished Economic Revolution_. Washington, DC:
Brookings Institution Press, Chapters 2, 3, and 5.
Loren Brandt, Hongbin Li, and Joanne K. Roberts. 2005. “Banks and Enterprise Privatization in China.” _Journal of Law, Economics and Organization_ 21(2): 524-546.
Victor Shih. 2008. Factions and Finance in China: Elite Conflict and Inflation. New York: Cambridge University Press.
WEEK 12 ( ) Foreign Trade and Investment
_Required Reading_
Yasheng Huang. 2003. _Selling China: Foreign Direct Investment during the Reform Era._ Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, Chapter 1.
Yumin Sheng. 2007. “Global Market Integration and Central Political Control: Foreign Trade and Intergovernmental Relations in China,” _Comparative Political Studies_.” 40(4): 405-34.
Chih-shian Liou. 2014. “Rent Seeking at Home, Capturing Market Share Abroad: The Domestic Determinants of the Transnationalization of China State Construction Engineering Corporation.” _World Development_ 54(2): 220-231.
_Suggested Reading_
Nicolas R. Lardy. 2002. _Integrating China into the Global Economy_. Washington D.C.: Brookings Institution Press.
Elizabeth C. Economy and Michael Levi. 2014. _By all Means Necessary: How China Resources Quest is Changing the World_. New York: Oxford University Press.
William J. Norris. 2016. _Chinese Economic Statecraft: Commercial Actors, Grand Strategy, and State Control_. New York: Cornell University Press.
WEEK 13 ( ) Labor Politics
_Required Reading_
Jonathan Unger and Anita Chan. 1995. , “China, Corporatism, and the East Asian Model,” _The Australian Journal of Chinese Affairs_ 33: 29-53.
Ching Kwan Lee and Eli Friedman. 2010. “Remaking the World of Chinese Labor: A Thirty Year Retrospective” _British Journal of Industrial Relations_ 48 (3): 3-17.
Linda Wong. 2011. “Chinese Migrant Workers: Rights Attainment Deficits, Right Consciousness and Personal Strategies,” _The China Quarterly_ 208: 870-892.
_Suggested Reading_
Mary Elizabeth Gallagher. 2005. _Contagious Capitalism: Globalization and the Politics of Labor in China_. Princeton University Press.
Ching Kwan Lee. 2007. _Against the Law: Labor Protest in China’s Rustbelt and Sunbelt_. Berkeley: University of California Press.
William Hurst. 2009. _The Chinese Worker after Socialism_.
WEEK 14 ( ) Civil Society
_Required Reading_
Timothy Hildebrandt. 2013. _Social Organizations and the Authoritarian State in China_. New York: Cambridge University Press. Chapters 1 & 8.
Jessica C. Teets. 2013. “Let Many Civil Societies Bloom: The Rise of Consultative Authoritarianism in China.” _The China Quarterly_ 213: 19-38.
Rory Truex. 2017. “Consultative Authoritarianism and Its Limits.” _Comparative Political Studies_ 50(3): 329-361.
_Suggested Reading_
Benjamin L. Read. 2008. “Assessing Variation in Civil Society Organizations: China’s Homeowner Associations in Comparative Perspective.” _Comparative Political Studies_ 41(9): 1240-1265.
Ching Kwan Lee and You-tien Hsing (eds.). 2009. _Reclaiming Chinese Society: The New Social Activism_. London and New York: Routledge.
Guobing Yang. 2009. _The Power of Internet in China: Citizen Activism Online_. New York: Cambridge University Press
WEEK 15 ( ) Debating the China Model
_Required Reading_
Barry Naughton 2010. “China’s Distinctive System: Can it be a Model for Others?” _Journal of Contemporary China_ 19(65): pp. 437-60.
Scott Kennedy. 2010. “The Myth of the Beijing Consensus.” _Journal of Contemporary China_ 19(65): pp. 461-77.
Minxin Pei. 2016. _China’s Crony Capitalism: The Dynamics of Regime Decay_. Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press, Introduction and Chapter 1.
_Suggested Reading_
Jashua Cooper Ramo. 2004. _The Beijing Consensus: Notes on the New Physics of Chinese Power_. London: Foreign Policy Centre, available at http://fpc.org.uk/fsblob/244.pdf.
Wei Pan. 2007._The Chinese Model of Development_. London: Foreign Policy Centre, available at http://fpc.org.uk/fsblob/888.pdf.
黃平，崔之元(主編). 2005. 《中國與全球化：華盛頓共識還是北京共識》. 社會科學文獻出版社.
俞可平，黃平，謝曙光，高健(主編). 2006. 《中國模式與 “北京共識” 超越 “華盛頓共識”》. 社會科學文獻出版社.
Yasheng Huang. 2008. _Capitalism with Chinese Characteristics: Entrepreneurship and the State_. New York: Cambridge University Press, Chapter. 5. (ebook)
陳志武. 2010. 《沒有中國模式這回事》. 八旗文化.
丁學良. 2011. 《辯論 “中國模式”》. 社會科學文獻出版社.
WEEK 16 ( ) China and Global Governance
_Required Reading_
Scott Kennedy. 2005. “China’s Porous Protectionism: The Changing Political Economy of Trade Policy.” _Political Science Quarterly_ 120(3): 407-432.
Edward S. Steinfeld. 2010. _Playing Our Game: Why China’s Rise Doesn’t Threaten the West._ Oxford: Oxford University Press, Chapters 1-2.
David Shambaugh. 2013. _China Goes Global: the Partial Power_. New York: Oxford University Press, Chapter 4.
_Suggested Reading_
Margerat M. Pearson and Gregory Chin. Eds. 2013. Special Issue on “International Political Economy in China: The Global Conversation,” _Review of International Political Economy_ 20(6).
G. John Ikenberry and Darren J. Lim. 2017. “China’s Emerging Institutional Statecraft: The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and the Prospects for Counter-hegemony,” _Project on International Order and Strategy at Brookings._
WEEK 17 ( ) China’s Dual Transition
_Required Reading_
Mary Elizabeth Gallagher. 2002. “Reform and Openness: Why China’s Economic Reform Have Delayed Democracy.” _World Politics_ 54(3): 338-72.
Minxin Pei. 2006. _China’s Trapped Transition: The Limits of Developmental Autocracy_. Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press, Introduction and Chapter 1.
Greg Distelhorst, “The Power of Empty Promises: Quasi-Democratic Institutions and Activism in China,” _Comparative Political Studies_ 50(4): 464-498.
_Suggested Reading_
An Chen. 2002. “Capitalist Development, Entrepreneurial Class, and Democratization in China,” _Political Science Quarterly_ 117 (3): 401-22.
Kellee Tsai. 2007. _Capitalism without Democracy_. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
Jie Chen and Bruce J. Dickson. 2010. _Allies of the State: Democratic Support and Regime Support among China’s Capitalists_.
WEEK 18 ( ) Seminar Paper Presentations
_Research proposal due!!_
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.