國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：東南亞比較政治
#####  Course Name: Comparative Politics in Southeast Asia
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：260908001 Course No.260908001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：東亞碩一、東亞博一、東亞碩二、東亞博二 Course Department:East Asian Studies/D&M/1&2/1&2 
  * 授課老師：孫采薇 Instructor: SUN TSAI-WEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
The course combines theoretical material with corresponding practical instances as they have taken place and continue to occur in Southeast Asia. The aim is to expose students to the region's diversity while cultivating a critical awareness of key theoretical models and dominant narratives, which have and continue to define each country's political and social climate. Upon completing this course, students should be familiar with the dominant approaches and theories in comparative politics, and the basic contours of modern Southeast Asian politics. Students should also be able to determine the merits and weaknesses of various theoretical approaches and apply these to analyze current political developments in the region critically. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備資料統整與分析的知能
  * B. 具備國家政策規劃與比較的知能
  * C. 具備專業學術的基礎與比較的知能
  * D. 具備國際觀點與公民價值知能
  * E. 具備資料統整與分析的知能
  * F. 具備專業學術與比較研究的知能
  * G. 具備政策規劃與比較的知能
  * H. 具備國際觀點與公民價值知能
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
For political scientists, Southeast Asia is one of the most interesting and important arenas for comparative studies, particularly in comparative democratization. The region includes Asia’s oldest democracy, the Philippines, the recently consolidated democracy, Indonesia, the once-and-future democracy, Thailand and Burma/Myanmar, and various forms of semi-democratic/ soft-authoritarian rule, including Malaysia and Singapore. Aside from the puzzle of this pattern of diversity, the transitions from authoritarian rule in the region have attracted much attention, beginning with the ‘People Power’ revolt against long-time strongman Marcos in the Philippines in 1986, and the student protests that led to the resignation of Suharto in Indonesia in 1998, to the more recent ‘political transition’ from military junta to civilian government in Burma/Myanmar in 2011 (but in 2021….hummm…..). Beyond these dramatic transitions, the longer-term and complicated processes of political change ongoing in Southeast Asia in recent years have involved important examples of forces and dynamics found elsewhere in the world: civil society and social movements, political Islam, ethno-communal violence, armed separatism, and terrorism. Even those countries still under authoritarian rule have experienced socio-economic transformation in recent years, with subtle political changes also underway despite apparent regime stability. The course will seek to explain the patterns and dynamics of contemporary politics in this rapidly changing region and to provide guidelines for evaluating their future developments.
While the course will cover the entire Southeast Asia, it will devote most attention to the region’s six countries: Burma/Myanmar, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand. 
The course will begin by introducing various theoretical approaches used by political scientists in comparative democratic studies. With those ‘tools’ in mind, the latter units of course will be to understand processes of political change and continuity in Southeast Asian countries, particularly growing pressures for ‘more democracy’ in most of them. The course will also cover some major political issues including political Islam, ethno-communal conflict, and gender.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
Weekly Course Schedule
Week 1 Feb 21 Introduction
Week 2 Feb 28 Holiday (no class)
Week 3 Mar 07 Election and Democracy (1): Electoral and Party System of 6 countries
  1. B1, Ch.1
  2. B1, Chs. 4, 6~10: (from “Historical Background” to “State administration” of each chapter)
Week 4 Mar 14 Election and Democracy (2): Patronage; Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines
  1. B2, Chs. 1, 2, 7
Week 5 Mar 21 Military and Democracy (1): Theory; Singapore
  1. B1, Chs. 4, 6~10 (“Civil-Military Relations” of each chapter)
  2. B3, Ch. 1, pp.1-21 (Northeast Asia and South Asia sections can be skimmed)
  3. B3, Ch. 5
Week 6 Mar 28 Military and Democracy (2): Myanmar, Indonesia, Thailand, Philippines
  1. B4, Ch.10
  2. B3, Chs. 2, 3, 4, 8
Week 7 Apr 04 Holiday (no class)
Week 8 Apr 11 Civil Society and Populism (1): Theory; Singapore, Thailand
  1. B1, Chs. 4, 6~10 (“Civil Society” and “Media System” of each chapter)
  2. B5, Chs. 1, 2, 5
Week 9 Apr 18 Civil Society and Populism (2): Recession; Philippines
  1. B4, Chs. 1, 2
  2. B5, Ch. 4
  3. B6, Ch. 8
Week 10 Apr 25 Civil Society and Populism (3): Ethnicity; Malaysia, Indonesia
  1. B4, Chs. 3~5
  2. B5, Ch. 3
Week 11 May 02Media, Fake News, and Democracy (1):Singapore v.s. Myanmar
  1. B6, Chs. 1~2, 6~7, 9 (5 chapters)
Week 12 May 09Media, Fake News, and Democracy (2): Indonesia, Thailand, Philippines
  1. B4, Chs. 6, 9
  2. B6, Ch. 4, 10
  3. Temby, Quinton. 2019. “Disinformation, violence, and anti-Chinese sentiment in Indonesia’s 2019 elections. ISEAS Perspective 2019(67) (2 Sept). (5 pages)
Week 13 May 16 Democracy in Southeast Asia: A Review and Prospects
  1. B1, Chs. 4, 6~10 (The last section of each chapter)
  2. B1, Chs. 13~14
  3. B6, Ch. 12
  4. Gaens, Bart & Ruohomäki, Olli. 2022. “Southeast Asian Democracy: Democratic Regression or Autocratic Hardening?” FIIA Briefing Paper #342.
Week 14 May 23 Paper outline presentation
Week 15 May 30 Holiday (no class)
Week 16 Jun 06 Final essay submission deadline
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.