國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：東亞與南亞之民主與民主化
#####  Course Name: Democracy and Democratization in East and South Asia
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：261633001 Course No.261633001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國發碩一、國發博一、國發碩二、國發博二 Course Department:Graduate Institute of Development Studies/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：魏玫娟 Instructor: WEI MEI-CHUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三567 Session: wed14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
The course is concerned with recent political developments in East and South Asia. In addition to the issues that have long been central to research in democratisation in the region concerned and studied extensively, we draw attention to some important/new issues that have been neglected in the existing literature. These issues include: the contesting conceptions of democracy (e.g. the ‘liberal vs. illiberal democracy’ debate); the relations between gender, development and democracy; and the impact of globalisation on democracy.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備發展理論基礎與科際整合架構的思考與研究之知能
  * B. 具備國家發展理論與政策實務分析的判斷與批判之能力
  * C. 具有人文關懷與多元價值涵養的解決問題與創新之能力
  * D. 具備國際視野與協調合作思維的溝通與行動之能力
  * E. 具備發展理論基礎與科際整合架構的思考與研究之知能
  * F. 具備國家發展理論與政策實務分析的判斷與批判之能力
  * G. 具有人文關懷與多元價值涵養的解決問題與創新之能力
  * H. 具備國際視野與協調合作思維的溝通與行動之能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
We are particularly interested in how the idea of democracy has evolved, what it means and what institutional arrangements it entails in different parts of the region concerned. We are also interested in how democracy has interacted with the forces of development, modernisation and globalisation, of nationalism and ethnic, religious and other political-cultural traditions. We shall examine how and why, despite conflicts and uncertainties, democracy has become increasingly influential in political processes, policy formulations and ideological commitments. By focusing on the current political and socio-economic, and in some cases regime, transformations, we will learn how the concept of democracy is continuously contested in Asia, ideologically as much as institutionally. At the end of the course, students are expected to be familiar with contemporary political changes in South and East Asia, and competent in discussing at least two country cases with detailed historical and empirical knowledge. Students should also achieve a sophisticated awareness of the difficulties with theorisation at the time when the idea of democracy has achieved global dominance with ever fewer competitors for legitimacy and legitimation.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
18週18 weeks | 無彈性補充教學週No flexible supplemental instruction week  
Week 1 (Feb. 19) Course introduction and overview 
Week 2 (Feb. 26) General themes about democracy in Asia (I):
current status and prospect
_Readings:_
  1. Diamond, Larry, 2011, ‘East Asia amid the Receding Tide of the Third Wave of Democracy’, paper presented at International Conference on Democracy in East Asia and Taiwan in Global Perspective’, Aug. 24-25, 2011, Taipei, Taiwan.
  2. Diamond, Larry, 2013, ‘Introduction’, in Larry Diamond, Marc F. Plattner and Yun-han Chu (eds.), _Democracy in East Asia: a new century_ (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP)
  3. Fukuyama, Francis, 2013, ‘The Patterns of History’, in Larry Diamond, Marc F. Plattner and Yun-han Chu (eds.), _Democracy in East Asia: a new century_ (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP)
  4. Beetham, David, 1994, ‘Introduction’, in D. Beetham (ed.), _Defining and Measuring Democracy_ (London: Sage) 
* Suggested readings:
  1. Westad, O. R., 2005, _The Global Cold War_(Cambridge: CUP)
  2. Zakaria, Fareed, 2004, _The Future of Freedom: Liberal Democracy at Home and Abroad_(N.Y.: Norton)
  3. Weale, Albert, 1999, ‘Introduction: Democracy and Political Theory’, _Democracy_(London: MacMillan Press Ltd.)
Week 3 (Mar. 5) General themes about democracy in Asia (II):
democracy and liberal democracy
_Readings:_
  1. Held, David, 2000, ‘The development of liberal democracy: For and against the state’, _Model of Democracy_(2 edn.), (Cambridge: Polity Press)
  2. Parekh, Bhikhu, 1996, ‘The cultural particularity of liberal democracy’, in David Held (eds.), 1996, _Prospects for Democracy_(Cambridge: Polity Press)
  3. Weale, Albert, 1999, ‘Varieties of Democracy’, _Democracy_(London: MacMillan Press Ltd.)
Week 4 (Mar. 12) Japanese democracy: External engineering, party politics and Bureaucracy
* Film:_The Emperor_(political history of Japan after the end of WWII under the American occupation)
_Readings:_
  1. Dower, John, 1999, Chap. ‘Introduction’, ‘Engineering Growth’, and ‘Legacies/Fantasies/Dreams’, in John Dower, _Embracing Defeat:__Japan in the aftermath of World War_ _II_(London: Penguin) “Introduction, ch17, epilogue.”
  2. Bullock, Robert W., 2000, ‘Japan’, in Jeffrey Kopstein and Mark Lichbach (eds.), _Comparative Politics_(Cambridge: CUP)
  3. Iokibe, Makoto, 1998, ‘Japan’s Democratic Experience’, in Larry Diamond and Marc F. Plattner (eds.), _Democracy in East Asia_ (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP)
* Suggested reading:
1. Potter, David, 1996, ‘Democratization in Asia’, in David Held (ed.), _Prospects for Democracy_ (Cambridge: Polity Press)
Week 5 (Mar. 19) Indian democracy: colonial legacy, modernisation,
and governability (I)
_Readings:_
  1. Sarkar, Sumit, 2001, ‘Indian democracy: the historical inheritance’, in Atul Kohli (ed.), _The Success of India’s Democracy_ (Cambridge: CUP)
  2. Lijpart, Arend, 1996, ‘The Puzzle of Indian Democracy: A Consociational Interpretation’, _The American Political Science Review_ , Vol. 90, No. 2, Jun. 1996, pp. 258-268
  3. Varshney, A., 1998, ‘India defies the odds: why democracy survives’, _Journal of Democracy_ , Vol. 19, No. 3, 1998
* Suggested readings:
1. Brown, J., 1985, _Modern India: The Origins of an Asian Democracy_ (Oxford: OUP)
Week 6 (Mar. 26) Indian democracy: colonial legacy, modernisation,
and governability (II)
_Readings_ :
1. Brass, P., 1999, ‘India: democratic progress and problems’, in Harrison, et al (eds.), _India and Pakistan: the First Fifty Years_ (Cambridge: CUP)
2. Das Gupta, Jyotirindra, 1995, ‘India: Democratic Becoming and Developmental Transition’, in L. Diamond, J. Linz and M. Lipset (eds.), _Politics in Developing Countries: Comparing Experiences with Democracy_ (Boulder, Colorado: Lynne Rienner)
3. Ray, Aswini K., 2002, ‘Globalization and democratic governance: The Indian experience’, in C. Kinnvall and K. Jönsson (eds.), _Globalization and Democratization in Asia: the Construction of Identity_ (London: Routledge)
4. Jenkins, Rob, 2008, ‘India: Associational Life and Its Discontents’, in Peter Burnell and Vicky Randall (eds.), _Politics in Developing World_ (Oxford: OUP)
* Suggested readings:
1. Kohli, Atul, 1990, _Democracy and Discontent: India’s Growing Crisis of Governability_ (Cambridge: CUP)
2. Kohli, Atul (ed.), 2001, _The Success of India’s Democracy_ (Cambridge: CUP)
Week 7 (April 2) Democracy and authoritarianism in South Asia
* Film:_The Day When India Burned_ (history of 1947 partition in India)
_Readings:_
1. Chadda, M., 2000, ‘The history of democratic experience in South Asia,’ _Building Democracy in South Asia: India, Nepal, Pakistan_ (N. Y.: Rienner)
2. Jalal, Ayesha, 1995, ‘State formation and political processes in India and Pakistan, 1947 to 1971,’ in _Democracy and Authoritarianism in South Asia: A comparative and historical perspective_ (Cambridge: CUP) 
3. Odenburg, Philip, 2010, ‘Clearly divergent paths,’ _India, Pakistan and Democracy: Solving the puzzle of divergent paths_ (London: Routledge)
4. Taylor, David, 2008, ‘Pakistan: The Military as a Political Fixture,’ in Peter Burnell and Vicky Randall (eds.), _Politics in Developing World_ (Oxford: OUP) 
*Suggested readings:
1. Jalal, Ayesha, 1995, ‘The colonial legacy,’ in _Democracy and Authoritarianism in South Asia: A comparative and historical perspective_ (Cambridge: CUP)
2. Cooper, F., 2005, _Colonialism in Question: Theory, Knowledge, History_ (California: U of California Press)
Week 8 (April 9) Democratisation in the NICs: state capacity and
regime change (I): South Korea and Taiwan
_Readings:_
  1. Yun-han Chu and Hyug Baeg Im, 2013, ‘The Two Turnovers in South Korea and Taiwan,’ in Larry Diamond, Marc F. Plattner and Yun-han Chu (eds.), _Democracy in East Asia: a new century_ (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP) 
  2. Ferdinand, Peter, 2008, ‘South Korea: From Development to New Challenges,’ in Peter Burnell and Vicky Randall (eds.), _Politics in Developing World_ (Oxford: OUP) 
3. Potter, David, 1997, ‘Democratization at the same time in South Korea and Taiwan’, in David Potter et al (eds.), _Democratization_ (Cambridge: Polity) 
4. Leftwich, A., 1995, ‘Bringing the state back in: towards a model of the developmental state,’ _Journal of Development Studies_ , Vol. 3, No. 13, Feb. 1995
* Suggested readings:
1. Potter, David, 1997, ‘Explaining democratization’, in David Potter et al (eds.), Democratization (Cambridge: Polity)
2. Robinson, M., and G. White (eds.), 1998, The Democratic Developmental State: Politics and Institutional Design (Oxford: OUP)
Week 9 (April 16) Mid-term exam week: guest speech or proposal discussion
Film _Formosa Betrayed_ or documentary on Singapore’s history & presentations of final paper proposals. 
Week 10 (April 23) Democratisation in the NICs: state capacity and
regime change (II): Singapore and Hong Kong
_Readings:_
1. Ng, Margaret, 1998, ‘Why Asia needs democracy: a view from Hong Kong’, in Larry Diamond and Marc F. Plattner (eds.), _Democracy in East Asia_ (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP)
2. Bell, Daniel A. and Jayasuriya, Kanishka, 1995, ‘Understanding illiberall democracy: a framework’, in Daniel Bell, David Brown, Kanishka Jayasuriya and David Martin Jones (eds.), _Towards Illiberal Democracy in Asia Pacific_(London: MacMillan)
3. Cotton, James, 1997, ‘East Asian democracy: progress and limits’, in Larry Diamond et al (eds.), _Consolidating the Third Wave Democracies_ (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press)
4. Slater, Dan, 2013, ‘Strong-State Democratization in Malaysia and Singapore,’ in Larry Diamond, Marc F. Plattner and Yun-han Chu (eds.), _Democracy in East Asia: a new century_ (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP) 
* Suggested readings:
1. Hill, M. and L. K. Fee, _The Politics of Nation Building and Citizenship in Singapore_ (London: Routledge)
2. Chan, Ming, 1997, ‘The legacy of British administration of Hong Kong: a view from Hong Kong’, _China Quarterly_ , No. 151, 1997
Week 11 (April 30) Debating democracy in China
_Readings:_
  1. Pei, Minxin, 2013, ‘Is CCP Rule Fragile or Resilient?’ in Larry Diamond, Marc F. Plattner and Yun-han Chu (eds.), _Democracy in East Asia: a new century_ (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP) 
  2. Meisner, M., 1996, _The Deng Xiaoping Era: An Inquiry into the Fate of Chinese Socialism, 1978-94_ , (Hill & Wang)“Chs. 12, 13, 14”
  3. Womack, B., 1991, “In search of democracy: public authority and popular power in China”, in B. Womack (ed.), _Contemporary Chinese Politics in Historical Perspective_ (Cambridge: CUP)
  4. Chu, Yun-han, 2013, ‘China and the Taiwan Factor,’ in Larry Diamond, Marc F. Plattner and Yun-han Chu (eds.), _Democracy in East Asia: a new century_ (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP) 
*Suggested reading:
1. X Zhang, 2001, ed. _Wither China: Intellectual Politics in Contemporary China_ , Duke UP
Week 12 (May 7) Ethnic, religious and linguistic politics and democratisation
_Readings:_
1. Wolpert, Stanley, 1999, ‘India, the Multicultural Paradigm’, _Orbis_ , Vol. 43, No. 4, Fall 1999, pp. 575-79
2. Dreyer, June Teufel, ‘China, the Multicultural Paradigm’, _Orbis_ , Vol. 43, No. 4, Fall 1999, pp. 581-97.
3. Dasgupta, J., 2001, ‘India’s federal design and multicultural national construction’, in Atul Kohli (ed.), _The Success of India’s Democracy_ (Cambridge: CUP)
4. Aspinall, Edward, 2008, ‘Indonesia: Coping with Fragmentation,’ in Peter Burnell and Vicky Randall (eds.), _Politics in Developing World_ (Oxford: OUP)
Week 13 (May 14) Democracy and democratisation in Southeast Asia
_Readings:_
*all readings are very short
  1. Gainsborough, Martin, 2013, ‘Elites vs. Reform in Laos, Cambodia and Vitenam,’ in Larry Diamond, Marc F. Plattner and Yun-han Chu (eds.), _Democracy in East Asia: a new century_ (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP) 
  2. Zin, Min and Brian Joseph, 2013, ‘Burma: The Democrats’ Opportunity,’ in Larry Diamond, Marc F. Plattner and Yun-han Chu (eds.), _Democracy in East Asia: a new century_ (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP) 
  3. Aspinall, Edward, 2013, ‘The Irony of Success in Indonesia,’ in Larry Diamond, Marc F. Plattner and Yun-han Chu (eds.), _Democracy in East Asia: a new century_ (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP) 
  4. Thompson, Mark R., 2013, ‘Reviving Reformism in the Philippines,’ in Larry Diamond, Marc F. Plattner and Yun-han Chu (eds.), _Democracy in East Asia: a new century_ (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP)
  5. Pongsudhirak, Thitinan, 2013, ‘Thailand’s Uneasy Passage,’ in Larry Diamond, Marc F. Plattner and Yun-han Chu (eds.), _Democracy in East Asia: a new century_ (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP) 
Week 14 (May 21) Democracy, development and gender
_Readings:_
1. Przeworski, Adam, 1993, ‘The neoliberal fallacy’, in Larry Diamond and Marc Plattner (eds.), _Capitalism, Socialism, and Democracy Revisited_ (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins UP)
2. Randall, Vicky, 1997, ‘Why have the political trajectories of India and China been different’, in David Potter et al (ed.), _Democratization_ (Cambridge: Polity Press)
3. Clark, Cal and Lee, Rose J., 2000, ‘Women’s Status in East Asia’, in Rose J. Lee and Cal Clark (eds.), _Democracy & the Status of Women in East Asia_ (London: Lynne Reinner)
4. Ling, L.H.M., 2000, ‘The limits of democratization for women in east Asia’, in Rose J. Lee and Cal Clark (eds.), _Democracy & the Status of Women in East Asia _(London: Lynne Reinner)
Week 15 (May 28) Democracy and human rights
_Readings:_
1. Christie, K. and D. Roy, 2001, _The Politics of Human Rights in East Asia_ (London: Pluto) “Introduction”
2. Bell, D. A., 2000, _East Meets West: Human Rights and Democracy in East Asia_ (NJ: Princeton UP) “Introduction, Ch. 2”
3. Bauer, J. and D. A. Bell, 1999, eds. _The East Asian Challenge for Human Rights_ (Cambridge: CUP)“Introduction, Ch. 1”
4. Sen, A., 1999, ‘Democracy as a universal value,’ _Journal of Democracy_ , 10:3
5. Van Ness, P., 1999, ed. _Debating Human Rights: Critical Essays from the United States and Asia_ , (London: Routledge) “Chs. 2 &3”
Week 16 (June 4) Democracy, culture and legitimacy
_Readings:_
1. Lipset, M., 1996, “The centrality of political culture”, in L. Diamond and M. Platner, eds. _The Global Resurgence of Democracy_ , John Hopkins UP
2. Parekh, B., 1994, “Cultural diversity and liberal democracy”, in D. Beetham, _Defining and Measuring Democracy_ , Sage.
3. Sen, A., 2004, “Passage to China”, _New York Review of Books_ 51:19, 2 Dec 2004 
4. Zakaria, F., 1994, “Culture is destiny: a conversation with Lee Kuan Yew”, _Foreign Affairs_ 73:2, Mar/Apr 1994
5. Kim Dae Jung, “Is culture destiny? The myth of Asia’s anti-democratic values”, _Foreign Affairs_ , Nov/Dec 1994 
6. Fukuyama, F., 1995, “Confucianism and democracy”, _Journal of Democracy_ , 6:2, 1995
* Suggested reading:
Pye, L., 1985, _Asian Power and Politics: The Cultural Dimensions of Authority_ , Harvard UP 
Week 17 (June 11) Nationalism, regional security, globalisation and democracy
_Readings_ _:_
  1. Friedman, Edward, 2000, ‘Immanuel Kant’s relevance to an enduring Asia-Pacific peace’, in E. Friedman and B. L. McCormick (eds.), _What if China Doesn’t Democratize?_ (Armonk, N.Y.: M. E. Sharpe)
  2. Mann, Michael, 2004, ‘Taiwan in the Web of Empire: Wars, Capitalism and Empires’, paper prepared for the Conference “Taiwan at the Edge of Empire”, Center for Contemporary China, National Tsing Hua University, Taipei, December 18-19, 2004.
  3. Wu, Rwei-ren, 2002, ‘Toward a Pragmatic Nationalism: Democratization and Taiwan’s Passive Revolution,’ in Stéphane Curcuff (ed.), _Memories of the Future: National Identity Issues and the Search for a New Taiwan_(Armonk, N. Y.: M. E. Sharpe) 
  4. Wang, Shaoguang et al, 2003, _Nationalism, Democracy and National Integration in China_ (London: Routledge)
*Suggested reading: Anderson, Benedict, 2001,‘Western nationalism and Eastern nationalism: Is there a difference that matters’, _New Left Review_ , No. 9, May/Jun 2001, pp.31-42.
Week 18 (June 18) End-of-term exam week
* Wrap-up and presentations of final essays
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.