國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：環境治理專題
#####  Course Name: Environmental Governance
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：261876001 Course No.261876001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國發碩一、國發博一、國發碩二、國發博二 Course Department:Graduate Institute of Development Studies/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：林義鈞 Instructor: LIN YI-CHUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一567 Session: mon14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
For nearly five decades’ rapid capitalization, the neoliberal developmental experiences and models have stood out as an impressive example for many the world to imitate. However, with the drive for those neoliberal modernization projects, governments, firms, and people have been facing great challenges in sustainable development as a result of growing interaction between human activities and natural environment. To meet the challenges, the world must not only learn profound lessons from its historical experiences but also search for cooperative assistance from the global, regional, national, and local governance mechanisms. This course attempts to address key questions about some important environmental issue-areas by looking at historical development of environmental protection and current environmental policies and activities for better environmental governance mechanisms in the world. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備發展理論基礎與科際整合架構的思考與研究之知能
  * B. 具備國家發展理論與政策實務分析的判斷與批判之能力
  * C. 具有人文關懷與多元價值涵養的解決問題與創新之能力
  * D. 具備國際視野與協調合作思維的溝通與行動之能力
  * E. 具備發展理論基礎與科際整合架構的思考與研究之知能
  * F. 具備國家發展理論與政策實務分析的判斷與批判之能力
  * G. 具有人文關懷與多元價值涵養的解決問題與創新之能力
  * H. 具備國際視野與協調合作思維的溝通與行動之能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
After successful completing this course, students should be able: (1) to provide building-blocks of both knowledge and theory about the environmental challenges, including the government, market/business, and social systems, in which the challenges are set; (2) to learn how to translate between the local and global environmental governance systems – that is, to learn how the same concepts may have different meanings in the local and in the global, and to learn how to find the clues needed for practical translation between the two for better environmental governance.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
18週18 weeks | 無彈性補充教學週No flexible supplemental instruction week  
Week 1– 2/17– Class Topic I: Course Introduction: discussion of course aims and content
Class Topic II:Moodle Introduction
Class Topic III: Assignment of weekly reading rotation
Week 2 –2/24– Class Topic: Theoretical Foundations in Environmental Politics
_Required reading:_
Lipschutz, Ronnie D. 2001. “Environmental History, Political Economy and Change: Frameworks and Tools for Research and Analysis.” _Global Environmental Politics_ 1, no. 3: 72-91.（）
Kutting, Gabriela. 2004. _Globalization and Environment_. Chapter 1. Albany: SUNY Press. 3-22.（）
O’Brien, Robert, and Marc Williams, _Global Political Economy: Evolution and Dynamics_ (New York, NY: Palgrave Macmillan, 2007, 2nd Edition), Chapters 11, 332-362.（）
Week3–3/03– Class Topic:Scale Governance on Environment
_Required reading:_
Reed, Maureen G. and Shannon Bruyneel. 2010. “Rescaling Environmental Governance, Rethinking the State: A Three-dimensional Review.” _Progress in Human Geography_ 34, no. 5: 646-653.（）
Bulkeley, Harriet. 2005. “Reconfiguring Environmental Governance: toward a Politics of Scale and Networks.” _Political Geography_ 24, no. 8: 875-902.（）
Bai, Xuemei. 2007. “Integrating Global Environmental Concerns into Urban Management - The Scale and Readiness Arguments.” _Journal of Industrial Ecology_ 11, no. 2: 15-29.（）
Week4–3/10– Class Topic: Approaches forEnvironmental Governance
_Required reading:_
Lin, Scott Y. 2023. “The Rise of Asia-Pacific Agribusiness in the Global South—The Corporate Food Regime Under the Third Regionalism.” Journal of Asian and African Studies, online first, https://doi.org/10.1177/00219096231188954. （）
Economy, Elizabeth. 2005. “Environment Enforcement in China.” In _China’s Environment and the Challenge of Sustainable Development_ , ed. Kristen A. Day. Armonk, NY: M.E. Sharpe. Pp. 102-120.（）
Shen, Wei, and Dong Jiang. 2021. “Making Authoritarian Environmentalism Accountable? Understanding China’s New Reforms on Environmental Governance.” _The Journal of Environment & Development_ 30, no. 1: 41-67. （）
Week5–3/17– Class Topic:Historical Background for Analysis
_Required reading:_
Elvin, Mark. 2000. “The Environmental Legacy of Imperial China.” In _Managing the Chinese Environment_ , ed., Richard Louis Edmonds. NY: Oxford University Press. Pp. 9-32.（）
Shapiro, Judith. 2001. _Mao’s War against Nature: Politics and the Environment in Revolutionary China_. NY: Cambridge University Press. Introduction. Pp. 1-19.（）
Lin, Scott Y. 2017. “State Capitalism and Chinese Food Security Governance.” _Japanese Journal of Political Science_ 18, no. 1 (March): 106-138.（）
Week6–3/24– Class Topic:GlobalEnvironmentalRegimes
_Required reading:_
Ross, Lester. 2000. “China: Environmental Protection, Domestic Policy Trends, Patterns of Participation in Regimes and Compliance with International Norms.” In _Managing the Chinese Environment_ , ed. Richard Louis Edmonds. NY: Oxford University Press. Pp. 85-111.（）
Yu, Hongyuan. 2008. _Global Warming and China’s Environmental Diplomacy_. New York, NY: Nova Science Publishing. Chapter 3-4. Pp.37-62.（）
Lin, Scott Y. 2022. “China’s Food Security Governance from a Hydraulic Society to a Corporate Food Regime and COVID-19.” _Issues and Studies_ 58, no. 4 (Decmmber): 1-19.（）
Week7–3/31– Class Topic:International Aid for Environment Governance
_Required reading:_
Woods, Ngaire. 2008. “Whose Aid? Whose Influence? China, Emerging Donors and the Silent Revolution in Development Assistance.” _International Affairs_ 84, no. 6 (November): 1205-1221.（）
Morton, Katherine. 2005. _International Aid and China’s Environment: Taming the Yellow Dragon_. New York, NY: Routledge. Chapter 4: Managing the Environment with a Human Face: the UNDP Approach. Pp. 85-119.（）
Morton, Katherine. 2005. _International Aid and China’s Environment: Taming the Yellow Dragon_. New York, NY: Routledge. Chapter 5: Creating Incentives and Institutions: the World Bank Approach. Pp. 120-157.（）
Week8–4/07– Class Topic:GovernmentalGovernanceMechanisms
_Required reading:_
Child, John, Yuan Lu, and Terence Tsai. 2007. “Institutional Entrepreneurship in Building an Environmental Protection System for the People’s Republic of China.” _Organization Studies_ 28, no. 7: 1013-1034.（）
Chen, Gang. 2009. _Politics of China’s Environmental Protection_. Hackensack, N.J.: World Scientific. Publishing Co. Pp. 16-40.（）
Lin, Scott Y. 2021. “Bringing Resource Management back into the Environmental Governance Agenda: Eco-State Restructuring in China.” _Environment, Development and Sustainability_ , 23, no. 8 (August): 12272-12301.（）
Week9–4/14– Class Topic:No Class(Mid-term exam week)
Submission of your term paper proposal due by 11:59PM of Friday, 4/11, 2025. 
Week 10–4/21– Class Topic: EnvironmentalGovernancefor Rural/UrbanAreas
_政大國發_ _X_ _英僑商務再生能源委員會_ _X Summer Internship Programme_ _—_
Speaker / 講座老師：
Colin Giles（CEO, The British Chamber of Commerce in Taipei (BCCT)）
Ching-Wen Huang 黃敬文（Director, NIRAS TAIWAN）
Time / 講座時間：April 21 , 2025（Mon.）下午0200p-0300p
Venue / 地點：政大綜合大樓General Building 270723R
Topic / 題目：2025 BCCT-UKRC Summer Internship Programme 暑期實習計畫 (2-3 Months)
英僑商務再生能源委員會提供總計7間外商公司，9個名額暑期實習機會，千萬別錯過政大國發所的說明會！
_Required reading:_
Tilt, Bryan. 2009. _The Struggle for Sustainability in Rural China: Environmental Values and Civil Society_. New York, NY: Columbia University Press. Chapter 1: 1-20.（）
Qi, Ye, Li Ma , Huanbo Zhang, and Huimin Li. 2008 “Translating a Global Issue into Local Priority – China’s Local Government Response to Climate Change.” _The Journal of Environment & Development_ 17, no. 4 (December): 379-400.（）
Lin, Scott Y. 2023. “Restoring the State back to Food Regime Theory: China’s Agribusiness and the Global Soybean Commodity Chain.” _Journal of Contemporary Asia_ , 53, no. 2 (March): 288-310.（）
Week 11–4/28– Class Topic: EnvironmentalCivil Society
_Required reading:_
van Rooij, Benjamin. 2010. “The People vs. Pollution: Understanding Citizen Action against Pollution in China.” _Journal of Contemporary China_ 19, no. 63: 55-77.（）
Lin, Scott Y., and Jiawei Zeng. 2023. “Ant Forest—China’s Low-carbon Consumption Practices Driven by a Community Currency Mechanism.” _International Journal of Environment and Sustainable Development_ , advance online publication. Available from http://dx.doi.org/10.1504/IJESD.2022.10045305.（）
Ru, Jiang and Leonard Ortolano. 2009. “Development of Citizen-Organized Environmental NGOs in China.” _Voluntas_ 20: 141-168.（）
Week 12–5/5– Class Topic:Energy (Air)
_Required reading:_
Zhang, Na, Noam Lior, and Hongguang Jin. 2011. “The Energy Situation and Its Sustainable Development Strategy in China.” _Energy_ 36, no. 6: 3639-3649.（）
Aden, Nathaniel T. and Jonathan E. Sinton. 2006. “Environmental Implications of Energy Policy in China.” _Environmental Politics_ 15, no. 2: 248-270.（）
Zhou, Yun. 2010. “Why is China Going Nuclear?” _Energy Policy_ 38, no. 7: 3755-3762.（）
Week 13–5/12– Class Topic:Water
_Required reading:_
Brown, Philip H, Darrin Magee, and Yilin Xu. 2008. “Socioeconomic Vulnerability in China’s Hydropower Development.” _China Economic Review_ 19: 614-627.（）
Clarke-Sather, Afton. 2012. “State Development and the Rescaling of Agricultural Hydrosocial Governance in Semi-arid Northwest China.” _Water Alternatives_ 5, no. 1: 98-118.（）
Lin, Scott Y. 2013. “Growing Global Civil Society Complements Global Environmental Governance: Lessons learned from the Issue of the Lancang/Mekong Dam Projects.” _Issues and Studies_ 49, no. 4 (December): 141-188.（）
Week 14–5/19– Class Topic:Land and Food
_Required reading:_
Bräutigam, Deborah, and Haisen Zhang. 2013. “Green Dreams: Myth and Reality in China’s Agricultural Investment in Africa.” _Third World Quarterly_ 34, no. 9 (November): 1676-1696.（）
Lin, Scott Y. 2017. “The Evolution of Food Security Governance and Food Sovereignty Movement in China: An Analysis from the World Society Theory.” _Journal of Agricultural and Environmental Ethics_ 30, no. 5 (October): 667-695. （）
Lin, Scott Y. 2015. “From Self-Sufficiency to Self-Supporting: China’s Food Security under Overseas Farmland Investment and International Norms.” _Issues and Studies_ 51, no. 3 (September): 89-129.（）
Week 15–5/26– Class Topic: Environmental GovernanceForum-1
ESG與GRI 準則及實務應用
講座老師：
Deloitte 勤業眾信風險管理諮詢股份有限公司 王玫璇 副總經理
Deloitte 勤業眾信風險管理諮詢股份有限公司 葉思妤 顧問
講座時間：2025年5月26日（一）下午0210p-0430p
講座題目：ESG與GRI 準則及實務應用
Week 16–6/02– Class Topic: Environmental GovernanceForum-2
ESG與碳盤查
講座老師：
Deloitte 勤業眾信風險管理諮詢股份有限公司 （邀請中）
講座時間：2025年6月2日（一）下午0210p-0430p
講座題目：ESG與碳盤查
Week17–6/09– Class Topic: Environmental GovernanceForum-3
木柵焚化廠參訪
地址：116台北市文山區木柵路五段53號
講座老師：楊小姐（02-22300800分機107）
講座時間：2025年6月9日（一）下午1：30P出發，教育時間2p-4p；
講座題目：木柵焚化廠與生質能源
聯 絡 人：楊小姐（02-22300800分機107）
Week 18 –6/17– Class Topic: Submit your term paper
Write your term paper carefully. Submit your term paper due by 11:59PM of Friday, 6/20, 2025.
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.