國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：都市貧窮與不均
#####  Course Name: Poverty and Inequality in Era of Urbanization
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：261929001 Course No.261929001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國發碩一、國發博一、國發碩二、國發博二 Course Department:Graduate Institute of Development Studies/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：蘇昱璇 Instructor: SU YU-HSUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12 
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course examines urbanization and its influence from the perspective of economics. First, we will study the causes and consequences of poverty and inequality. We then turn to an analysis of the demographic forces—fertility, mortality, migration—that are propelling urbanization in poor countries and are also shaped by urbanization. Lastly, we will focus on slums and homelessness, which are two common phenomena during urbanization, and investigate related issues, such as irregular land tenure; upgrading and redevelopment schemes; and the capacity of municipal governance and planning.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備發展理論基礎與科際整合架構的思考與研究之知能
  * B. 具備國家發展理論與政策實務分析的判斷與批判之能力
  * C. 具有人文關懷與多元價值涵養的解決問題與創新之能力
  * D. 具備國際視野與協調合作思維的溝通與行動之能力
  * E. 具備發展理論基礎與科際整合架構的思考與研究之知能
  * F. 具備國家發展理論與政策實務分析的判斷與批判之能力
  * G. 具有人文關懷與多元價值涵養的解決問題與創新之能力
  * H. 具備國際視野與協調合作思維的溝通與行動之能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Students will learn how to read and present academic papers. Students will also learn to write a referee report and an empirical final paper with data analysis, which have the potential to develop into a master thesis or very good writing samples for future graduate school application in social sciences.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Week |  | Topic | Format | Readings | Learning hours (including class time)  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  | Introduction, Principles of Economics | Lecture | Class notes | 9  
2 |  | Regression, Evaluation & Stata | Lecture | Class notes | 12  
3 |  | Overview | Lecture | 
  * UN. 2022. "2022 Voluntary National Reviews Synthesis Report."
  * UN. 2021. "2021 Voluntary National Reviews Synthesis Report."
  * UN. 2017. "New Urban Agenda."
  * UN. 2019. "World Urbanization Prospects: The 2018 Revision."
  * Banerjee and Duflo. 2007. “Economic lives of the poor.” The Journal of Economic Perspectives.
| 12  
4 |  | Poverty & Inequality | Group presentation & Lecture | 
  * World Bank. 2015. "A Measured Approach to Ending Poverty and Boosting Shared Prosperity: Concepts, Data, and the Twin Goals."
  * Honyes and Patel. 2018. "Effective Policy for Reducing Poverty and Inequality? The Earned Income Tax Credit and the Distribution of Income." Journal of Human Resources.
  * Baum-Snow, Freeman, and Pavan. 2018. "Why Has Urban Inequality Increased?" American Economic Journal: Applied Economics.
| 12  
5 |  | Fertility & Family Planning | Group presentation & Lecture | 
  * Schultz. 1997. “Demand for Children in Low Income Countries.” Handbook of Population and Family Economics.
  * Miller and Babiarz. 2016. "Family Planning Program Effects: Evidence from Microdata." Population and Development Review.
  * Buckles, Hungerman, and Lugauer. 2021. "Is Fertility a Leading Economic Indicator?" The Economic Journal. 
  * Wang, Zhao, and Zhao. 2017. “China’s family planning policies and their labor market consequences.” Journal of Population Economics.
  * Grossman. 2019. "The unintended effects of place based programs: Fertility and health effects of urban empowerment zones." Journal of Health Economics.
| 12  
6 |  | Mortality | Group presentation & Lecture | 
  * Leigh and Jencks. 2007. "Inequality and mortality: Long-run evidence from a panel of countries." Journal of Health Economics.
  * Pickbourn and Ndikumana. 2019. "Does Health Aid Reduce Infant and Child Mortality from Diarrhoea in Sub-Saharan Africa?" Journal of Development Studies.
  * Ebeling. 2018. "How Has the Lower Boundary of Human Mortality Evolved, and Has It Already Stopped Decreasing?" Demography.
| 12  
7 |  | Individual research topic discussion |  |  | 12  
8 |  | Missing Women & Marriage Market | Group presentation & Lecture | 
  * Qian. 2008. “Missing Women and the Price of Tea in China: the Effect of Sex-Specific Earnings on Sex Imbalance.” The Quarterly Journal of Economics.
  * Ebenstein. 2010. “The ‘Missing Girls’ of China and the Unintended Consequences of the One Child Policy.” Journal of Human Resources.
  * Weiss, Yi, and Zhang. 2018. "Cross-Border Marriage Costs and Marriage Behavior: Theory and Evidence." International Economic Review.
| 12  
9 |  | Migration | Group presentation & Lecture | 
  * Bazzi. 2017. “Wealth Heterogeneity and the Income Elasticity of Migration.” American Economic Journal: Applied Economics.
  * Barsbai et al. 2017. “The Effect of Labor Migration on the Diffusion of Democracy: Evidence from a Former Soviet Republic.” American Economic Journal: Applied Economics.
  * Howell. 2017. "Impacts of Migration and Remittances on Ethnic Income Inequality in Rural China." World Development.
| 12  
10 |  | Urban Slums | Group presentation & Lecture | 
  * Marx, Stoker, and Suri. 2013. “The Economics of Slums in the Developing World.” Journal of Economic Perspectives.
  * Brueckner and Lall. 2015. “Cities in Developing Countries: Fueled by Rural-Urban Migration, Lacking in Tenure Security, and Short of Affordable Housing.” Handbook of Regional and Urban Economics.
  * Castells-Quintana. 2017. "Malthus living in a slum: Urban concentration, infrastructure and economic growth." Journal of Urban Economics.
| 12  
11 |  | Literature review presentations & critique | Individual presentation | TBD | 12  
12 |  | Literature review presentations & critique | Individual presentation | TBD | 12  
13 |  | Referee report due; exam questions & review |  |  | 12  
14 |  | Final exam | Individual exam |  | 15  
15 |  | Guest lecture | Lecture | World Vision | 12  
16 |  | Final presentations & critique | Individual presentation |  | 12  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.