國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：東南亞國際關係
#####  Course Name: International Relations in Southeast Asia
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：265780001 Course No.265780001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太博一、亞太博二、亞太博三 Course Department:International Doctoral Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/D/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：游雅雯 Instructor: YU YA-WEN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to introduce the dynamics of international relations in Southeast Asia with a focus on geopolitics and conflict resolutions in Southeast Asia. It first studies the issues of conflict resolution and peace education in the Asia Pacific region. Secondly, it discusses the international relations between Southeast Asian countries with the U.S., China, Japan, and other great powers. Thirdly, it examines regional conflicts and cooperation in the region to see how the ASEAN and its individual members have coped with various security challenges and handled the conflict resolutions.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備學術發表能力
  * C. 具備獨立研究能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the semester, students should be able to:
  * Obtain the essential knowledge of international relations in Southeast Asia.
  * Understand the geopolitical issues facing Southeast Asia countries.
  * Learn the skills to discussion the conflict resolution strategy in Southeast Asia.
  * Address a research question based on the reading materials and write a concise and coherent research paper with an appropriate bibliography format.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 8 週 Week 8 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week 1 /Feb.21 Course Introduction
Week 2 /Feb 28 Holidays (No Class)
Week 3 /March 7 Conflict Resolutions in Southeast Asia
Olekalns, Louise F. M., and Helen D. Cieri. 1999. “Cultural differences in Conflict Resolution: Individualism and collectivism in the Asia-Pacific region.” http://people.wku.edu/richard.miller/T-K%20cultural%20differences.pdf
Park, Cyn-Young, P. A. Petri, and M. G. Plummer. 2021. “The Economics of Conflicts and Cooperation in the Asia-Pacific: RCEP, CPTPP and US-China Trade War.” East Asian Economic Review 25(3): 233-271.
Week 4 /March 14 China, Taiwan and Southeast Asia
Trif, Dana S. 2024. "Negotiating ‘access’ to the international ‘rules-based order’: Taiwan’s South China Sea policy."  _The Pacific Review_ 37(3): 634-659.
Chen, Ian Tsung-Yen, and Alan Hao Yang. 2013. "A Harmonized Southeast Asia? Explanatory Typologies of ASEAN Countries’ Strategies to the Rise of China." The Pacific Review 26(3): 265-288.
Week 5 /March 21 Japan and Southeast Asia
Trinidad, Dennis D. 2007. "Japan’s ODA at the Crossroads: Disbursement Patterns of Japan’s Development Assistance to Southeast Asia." Asian Perspective 31(2): 95-125.
Zhao, Hong. 2019. "China–Japan Compete for Infrastructure Investment in Southeast Asia: Geopolitical Rivalry or Healthy Competition?" Journal of Contemporary China 28(118): 558-574.
Week 6 /March 28 South China Sea and International Law
Nguyen, Hong Kong To. 2023. "Law and (Dis) order in the South China Sea." _Asia Policy_ 18(2): 127-164.
McLaughlin, Rob. 2022. "The law of the sea and PRC gray-zone operations in the South China Sea."  _American Journal of International Law_ 116 (4): 821-835.
Week 7 /April 4 Holidays (No Class)
Week 8 /April 11 Flexible Week (No Class)
Week 9 /April 18 Conflict Resolution Strategy: Hedging
Jones, David Martin, and Nicole Jenne. "Hedging and grand strategy in Southeast Asian foreign policy."  _International Relations of the Asia-Pacific_ 22.2 (2022): 205-235.
Marston, Hunter S. 2023 "Abandoning Hedging."  _Contemporary Southeast Asia_ 45(1): 55-81..
Week 10 /April 25 Regionalism in Southeast Asia and the "ASEAN" Way
Lardo, Naifa Rizani. 2021 "ASEAN Way: Managing Expectation in the Code of Conduct for the South China Sea." _Global: Jurnal Politik Internasional_ 23(2): 218-235.
Aditomo, Farhan Muhammad, and Edy Prasetyono. 2022. "Review of the Formulating of the Code of Conduct in South China Sea between ASEAN and the People's Republic of China." _Konfrontasi: Jurnal Kultural, Ekonomi dan Perubahan Sosial_ 9(1): 119-130.
Week 11 /May 2 Transformation of Regional Security Order in Southeast Asia
Thayer, Carlyle A. 2021 "The South China Sea in Multilateral Forums: Five Case Studies." _Maritime Issues and Regional Order in the Indo-Pacific_. Pp.71-86.
Rüland, Jürgen and Arndt Michael. 2019. "Overlapping Regionalism and Cooperative Hegemony: How China and India Compete in South and Southeast Asia." Cambridge Review of International Affairs 32(2): 178-200.
Week 12 /May 9 ASEAN Regional Forum and Asia-Pacific Security
Sembiring, Afri Emilia Br, et al. 2024. The Implementation of Confidence-Building Measures (CBMs) in the South China Sea for Regional Stability through the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF)." _Jurnal Pertahanan: Media Informasi tentang Kajian dan Strategi Pertahanan yang Mengedepankan Identity, Nasionalism dan Integrity_ 10(2): 308-320.
Agastia, I. Gusti Bagus Dharma. 2021. ”Maritime security cooperation within the ASEAN institutional framework: A gradual shift towards practical cooperation." _JAS (Journal of ASEAN Studies)_ 9(1): 25-48
Week 13 /May 16 Code of Conduct, ASEAN and China
Roberts, Christopher B. 2018. "ASEAN, the “South China Sea” arbitral award, and the code of conduct: New challenges, new approaches." _Asian Politics & Policy_ 10(2): 190-218.
Trystanto, Trystanto. 2022. "Assessing the Potential Effectiveness of the ASEAN-China Code of Conduct on the South China Sea in Constraining Chinese Aggressive Actions." _Padjadjaran Journal of International Law_ 6(2): 136-159.
Week 14 /May 23 ASEAN and the South China Sea
Rahmaddi, Rahmaddi, Andri Yanto, and Dwi Haryadi. 2024. "Integration of ASEAN Way Principles in Negotiations for The ASEAN-China Code of Conduct for Creating Stability of The Southeast Asia Region." Proceedings of the International Conference on Environmental Law and Mining Law, ICTA II-MIL 2023, 21st October 2023, _Pangkalpinang, Bangka Belitung, Indonesia_. 2024.
Huang, Zhao Alexandre. 2024. "@ China vs.@ ASEAN on X: Their Digital Mediated Diplomacy Involving the# SouthChinaSea." USC Center on Public Diplomacy. Paper 2.
Week 15 /May 30 Holidays (No Class)
Week 16 /June 6 China’s Strategy in the South China Sea
Beeson, Mark, and Andrew Chubb. 2021”. Australia, China and the maritime ‘rules-based international order’: comparing the South China Sea and Timor Sea disputes." _International Relations of the Asia-Pacific_ 21(2): 233-264.
Wu, Yushan. 2024. "Textual Analysis of ASEAN's South China Sea Policy—Take the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea (2002) as an Example."  _Journal of Political Science Research_ 5(1): 61-66.
Week 17 /June 13 Final paper preparation
Week 18 /June 20 Submitting Final Paper
ATTENTION:
1. Add/drop the course. Students who would like to add this course, with my permission, will get my signature after attending the first two weekly class meetings. Students should drop the course if they 1) miss any of the first three weekly class meetings and/or 2) plan to skip the last two weekly class meetings.
2. Plagiarism is strictly prohibited in this course. The instructor will employ Turnitin and other plagiarism detection software to thoroughly assess your written work and papers. Any instances of copying others' work without proper citations or directly using AI-generated text will be considered cheating and will result in a failing grade (zero) for the course. Academic integrity is of utmost importance, and we expect all students to uphold the principles of honesty and originality in their submissions. Should you require any guidance or have concerns about citing sources appropriately, do not hesitate to seek assistance from the instructor. Let us maintain a fair and respectful learning environment, adhering to the highest standards of academic integrity.
3. Using laptops and cell phones in class. Using laptops and cell phones for taking notes is permitted. However, I will ask you to leave the classroom if I find that you use laptops and cell phones for chatting and entertainment.
4. Re-evaluating grades. You have the right to request a re-evaluation of the grading of your work. In doing so, you need to draft a one-page memo outlining why you deserve a better grade. Please note that this memo must be entirely based on the merit of your work (it cannot be based on comparison with the grades of other students). Remember that your grade will be fully re-evaluated, so the revision might involve a downward or upward change in the grade.
5. Assistance for your assignment writing. Students who have difficulty writing grammatical, clear, and well-organized assignments in English should seek help from the NCCU English Writing Center.
6. Students with disabilities. If you have a disability and need accommodations for this course, please contact me early in the session and contact the NCCU Physical and Mental Health Center. I will provide reasonable accommodations for you in the course. All conversations between you and me will remain confidential.
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.