國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：政治傳播專題
#####  Course Name: Seminar on Political Communication
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：265774001 Course No.265774001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太博一、亞太博二、亞太博三 Course Department:International Doctoral Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/D/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：戴士展 Instructor: DAI SHIH-CHAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16 
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to introduce the essential concepts and ideas related to how the communication of information shapes our political lives. In the current digital age, the production, construction, and distribution of information have become even more influential in how politics works. Therefore, there is an increasing interest in unpacking the mechanisms of political communication. This course begins with familiarizing students with some of the fundamental concepts such as “power”, “mediatization”, “ideology”, “intentionality”, and “media channels.” I will also discuss the major theoretical and analytical frameworks in the following realms of political communication: media effects (agenda-setting, priming, framing, media malaise theory); politics-media relationships (theory of press-state relations, meditation of politics theory); comparative analysis of communication systems (heuristic model, comparing media systems); theories of new media (affordances, hyperlinked society, connective action, hybrid media system, technological optimism); and normative perspectives (public sphere, critical theory, cultural hegemony, authenticity, civility). 
The second part of this course highlights discussions on the different channels and actors of political communication. We focus on the roles played by political elites, the masses, influencers of social media, as well as activists and try to understand their behavioral patterns. Therefore, the second part of the course provides a detailed overview of these important topics: political elites’ electoral advertisements and negative campaigning; social movements and framing; interpersonal political communication and cross-cutting networks; social media and the spread of misinformation; mass media and political polarization. 
The third part of this course looks at how we can apply what we have learned in the first two parts of the class in real-world cases. These case studies are saliently special topics in the research of political communication of recent years. These cases include but are not limited to the following ones: media censorship in China, policy framing of LGBTQ rights, and U.S. president Trump’s use of Twitter. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備學術發表能力
  * C. 具備獨立研究能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The course includes student presentations and activities. In student presentations, discussion facilitators will go through the main ideas of the readings and propose questions to ask their peers’ opinions on topics of a specific week. In the second part of the class, discussion facilitators will lead a group activity designed to match with the topic of that week. One example of the group activities is to ask students to play the role of activists. The goal of this activity is for students to design and apply what they have learned in “framing” when constructing their policy messages in a poster. Each group represents a minority group in society (for example women, LGBTQ persons, immigrants, etc.) and they need first try to identify the most pressing issue of their social group. Once the students have chosen a specific policy issue, they will then brainstorm the slogans, symbols, discourse, as well as images to be shown on their posters. At the end of the activity, students present their posters to the whole class and explain the rationale of their design as well as policy messaging. This hybrid style of teaching that combines both student presentations and group activities aims to encourage students to not only gain knowledge but also actively use such knowledge in real-world scenarios.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week |  Topics |  Readings |  Questions  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction |  Bennett, W. L., & Iyengar, S. (2008). A new era of minimal effects? The changing foundations of political communication.  _Journal of communication_ ,  _58_(4), 707-731. Perloff, M. (2013).  _Political communication: Politics, press, and public in America_. Routledge. Chpater 1 McNair, B. (2017).  _An introduction to political communication_. Routledge. Chapter 1.  |  What is political communication? How do different forms of media affect politics and vice versa? How can we study social phenomena related to political communication?   
2 |  Politics-Media Relationship  |  Street, J. (2010).  _Mass media, politics and democracy_. Macmillan. Chapter 5. Hadland, A., & Zhang, S. I. (2012). The “paradox of commercialization” and its impact on media-state relations in China and South Africa.  _Chinese Journal of Communication_ ,  _5_(3), 316-335. Dragomir, Marius. (2018). “Control the money, control the media: How government uses funding to keep media in line.”  _Journalism_ 19 (8): 1131–48. |  What functions does the press serve in society? How do the press and the state interact with each other? Does commercialization reshape media-state relations?   
3 |  Normative Perspectives |  Christians, C. G., Glasser, T., McQuail, D., Nordenstreng, K., & White, A. (2010).  _Normative theories of the media: Journalism in democratic societies_. University of Illinois Press. Cha. 2-3 Ogbebor, B. (2020). Media Policy, Democracy and Theories of the Press. In  _British Media Coverage of the Press Reform Debate_ (pp. 53-75). Palgrave Macmillan, Cham. |  How “should” the media system be controlled and operated? What is the interrelation between communicative (philosophical) traditions, democratic models, and journalistic roles?   
4 |  Media Effects |  Oliver, M. B., Raney, A. A., & Bryant, J. (Eds.). (2019).  _Media effects_. New York, NY: Routledge. Chapters 2 and 7. Scheufele, D. A. (2000). Agenda-setting, priming, and framing revisited: Another look at cognitive effects of political communication. Mass communication & society, 3(2-3), 297-316. Masullo, G. M. (2023). A new solution to political divisiveness: priming a sense of common humanity through Facebook meme-like posts.  _New Media & Society_, 14614448231184633. |  How does the consumption of media content affect individuals’ beliefs and behaviors? How can we measure media effects? Do media effects vary across individuals?   
5 |  Brainstorming Session on Term Papers |  No assigned readings |  Students need to come with a research proposal (2 pages) that specifies the research question(s), a brief review of the literature, and the contributions of this project. Students will take turn sharing their thoughts and receiving feedbacks from the professor and their peers.   
6 |  Interpersonal Communication of Politics |  Flanagin, A. J. (2017). Online social influence and the convergence of mass and interpersonal communication._ Human Communication Research_, 43(4), 450-463. Matthes, J., Knoll, J., Valenzuela, S., Hopmann, D. N., & Von Sikorski, C. (2019). A meta-analysis of the effects of cross-cutting exposure on political participation.  _Political Communication_ ,  _36_(4), 523-542. Harff, D., & Schmuck, D. (2023). Influencers as empowering agents? Following political influencers, internal political efficacy and participation among youth.  _Political Communication_ ,  _40_(2), 147-172. |  Do daily interpersonal interactions affect people’s political behaviors? If so, how? What does cross-cutting exposure mean? Does cross-cutting exposure always discourage people from taking part in politics?   
7 |  Spring Break |  Holiday |  Holiday  
8 |  Mass Media |  Rodrigo-Ginés, F. J., Carrillo-de-Albornoz, J., & Plaza, L. (2024). A systematic review on media bias detection: What is media bias, how it is expressed, and how to detect it.  _Expert Systems with Applications_ ,  _237_ , 121641. Groeling, T. (2013). Media bias by the numbers: Challenges and opportunities in the empirical study of partisan news.  _Annual Review of Political Science_ ,  _16_ , 129-151. Fischer, R., & Jarren, O. (2024). The platformization of the public sphere and its challenge to democracy.  _Philosophy & Social Criticism_,  _50_(1), 200-215. |  What is media bias? Does media bias necessarily harm democracies? What are the different ways to measure media bias? Which measurement is most convincing?  
9 |  Social Media |  Gil de Zúñiga, H., Weeks, B., & Ardèvol-Abreu, A. (2017). Effects of the news-finds-me perception in communication: Social media use implications for news seeking and learning about politics.  _Journal of computer-mediated communication_ ,  _22_(3), 105-123. Rosen et al. (2022). _The Social Media Debate._ Routledge. Chapters 7-8. Garrett, R. K. (2017). The “echo chamber” distraction: Disinformation campaigns are the problem, not audience fragmentation.  _Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition_ ,  _6_(4), 370-376. |  How does the emergence of social media change the way people consume news and information? What does social media impact democracies, either positively or negatively?  
10 |  _Political Elites_ |  Haselmayer, M., Meyer, T. M., & Wagner, M. (2019). Fighting for attention: Media coverage of negative campaign messages.  _Party Politics_ ,  _25_(3), 412-423. Newman, B., Merolla, J. L., Shah, S., Lemi, D. C., Collingwood, L., & Ramakrishnan, S. K. (2021). The trump effect: an experimental investigation of the emboldening effect of racially inflammatory elite communication.  _British Journal of Political Science_ ,  _51_(3), 1138-1159. Cervi, L., Tejedor, S., & Blesa, F. G. (2023). TikTok and political communication: The latest frontier of politainment? A case study.  _Media and communication_ ,  _11_(2), 203-217. |  How do political messages from elites affect people’s attitudes toward social groups or policy issues? Why do elite politicians frequently appeal to negative campaigning? Do political campaigns effectively affect voters’ candidate choices?   
11 |  Social Movements |  Benford, R. D., & Snow, D. A. (2000). Framing processes and social movements: An overview and assessment. Annual review of sociology, 26(1), 611-639. Knüpfer, C., Hoffmann, M., & Voskresenskii, V. (2022). Hijacking MeToo: Transnational dynamics and networked frame contestation on the far right in the case of the ‘120 Decibels' campaign.  _Information, Communication & Society,_ 25(7), 1010-1028. Liang, H., & Lee, F. L. (2023). Opinion leadership in a leaderless movement: discussion of the anti-extradition bill movement in the ‘LIHKG’web forum.  _Social movement studies_ ,  _22_(5-6), 670-688. |  What does framing mean, and why does it matter? What are the core framing tasks according to Benford and Snow (2000)? What are the common patterns of political communication in different kinds of activism?   
12 |  Workshop on Data and Methods |  No assigned readings |  Students need to come to class with a proposal that discusses the data and methods they will use in their projects. After their presentation (about 10 minutes), they will have a QA session where comments and questions will be provided.   
13 |  China and State Censorship |  King, G., Pan, J., & Roberts, M. E. (2013). How censorship in China allows government criticism but silences collective expression.  _American political science Review_ ,  _107_(2), 326-343. Lee, S. Y. (2016). Surviving online censorship in China: Three satirical tactics and their impact.  _The China Quarterly_ ,  _228_ , 1061-1080. Luo, Z., & Li, M. (2024). Participatory censorship: How online fandom community facilitates authoritarian rule.  _New Media & Society_,  _26_(7), 4236-4254. |  Do social networking platforms necessarily support liberation and empowerment of the marginalized? What does the Chinese government try to achieve by imposing censorship? To what extent is state censorship “successful” in China?  
14 |  Framing LGBTQ Rights  |  Zheng, Y., & Chan, L. S. (2020). Framing same-sex marriage in US liberal and conservative newspapers from 2004 to 2016: Changes in issue attributes, organizing themes, and story tones.  _The Social Science Journal_ , 1-13. Findor, A., Hruška, M., Gould, J. A., Hlatky, R., Tomková, Z., & Sirota, M. (2023). Framing effects, social norm perception, and tolerance of lesbian and gay individuals: Experimental evidence from Slovakia.  _Journal of Homosexuality_ ,  _70_(4), 729-753. _Sun_ , X., Wang, Y. S., & McLeod, D. M. (2024). National independence versus traditional culture: Framing the same-sex marriage movement and countermovement in Taiwan.  _The International Journal of Press/Politics_ ,  _29_(4), 1045-1063.  |  What are the common policy frames proposed by pro- and anti-LGBTQ rights activists? How do policy frames of LGBTQ rights in Taiwan show different features from those observed in the Global North? How do frames affect people’s policy attitudes toward LGBTQ rights?   
15 |  Running as Female Candidates  |  Herrnson, P. S., Lay, J. C., & Stokes, A. K. (2003). Women running “as women”: Candidate gender, campaign issues, and voter-targeting strategies.  _The Journal of Politics_ ,  _65_(1), 244-255. Bauer, N. M., & Santia, M. (2022). Going feminine: Identifying how and when female candidates emphasize feminine and masculine traits on the campaign trail.  _Political Research Quarterly_ , 75(3), 691-705. Russell, A., Macdonald, M., & Hua, W. (2023). Sit Still, Talk Pretty: Partisan Differences Among Women Candidates’ Campaign Appeals.  _Journal of Women, Politics & Policy_, 1-17. |  Does gender matter in running for office? What factors result in the persistent gender gap in political ambition? What strategies do female candidates adopt for greater electoral success?   
16 |  Social Media and Trump’s Presidency |  Clarke, I., & Grieve, J. (2019). Stylistic variation on the Donald Trump Twitter account: A linguistic analysis of tweets posted between 2009 and 2018.  _PloS one_ ,  _14_(9), e0222062. Wells, C., Shah, D., Lukito, J., Pelled, A., Pevehouse, J. C., & Yang, J. (2020). Trump, Twitter, and news media responsiveness: A media systems approach.  _New Media & Society_,  _22_(4), 659-682. Ross, A. S., & Caldwell, D. (2020). ‘Going negative’: An appraisal analysis of the rhetoric of Donald Trump on Twitter.  _Language & communication_,  _70_ , 13-27. |  Why does former US President Donald Trump rely heavily on Twitter? What are the characteristics of Trump’s messages on social media? What are the political goals he tries to achieve by adopting certain styles of political communication?  
17 |  Reading Week |  Reading Week |  No class but please sign up for online meetings with the instructor   
18 |  Final Presentation |  Please read the papers of other students and provide comments to others in class |  Presentation of final projects  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.