國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：看見國家：藝術、現代性、與國家建構
#####  Course Name: Visualizing the State: Arts, Modernity, and State-Building
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：265772001 Course No.265772001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太博一、亞太博二 Course Department:International Doctoral Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/D/1&2 
  * 授課老師：梁家瑜 Instructor: Liang Chia-Yu 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一567 Session: mon14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
‘Visualizing the State: Arts, Modernity, and State-Buildings’ is a one-semester module for students of IDAS. It aims at (1) introducing students to the multi-faceted and evolving relations between diverse art forms and state-building in modernity, emphasising (2) the historical and global context where the divisions were constructed between the modern and the ancient, as well as the West and the Rest, so students can (3) develop the abilities to perform analysis and interpretation of the relations between art and state-building in a rigorous and insightful manner. 
The module, therefore, is organised in the order of concept, themes, and cases of different periods. Apart from the first week that introduces the theme of the module, the module unfolds with (1) the conceptual demarcations of modernity (week 2-5), before moving onto (2) the themes emerging since the rise of the West to the end of the Cold War (week 6-11), as well as (3) the deterioration of the Liberal International Order in the 21st century (week 12-15). To conclude the module, the last two weeks will include an open discussion on the future of the relations between arts and state-building (week 16).
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備學術發表能力
  * C. 具備獨立研究能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Through this module, students will be exposed to a wide range of theoretical texts and audio-visual art works. The readings selected transcend disciplinary boundaries, while sharing the themes of artistic representations and modern state-building. The art works to be used in the class include productions from both the West and the non-West. 
On the basis of this set of materials, students are expected to develop the ability to from nuanced, critical, and theoretically informed interpretations of the role of arts in state-building. This will be assessed through their assignments. 
The design of the assignments, including class discussion, the essay abstract (mid-term), and term paper (end of term), aims to help students to develop the ability to form research question, collect materials for analysis, and structure arguments for an essay that demonstrate their research capability.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Week 1: Introduction
_Reading (excerpt)_
Charles Taylor, _Modern Social Imaginaries_ (Duke University Press, 2004).
Arjun Appadurai, Modernity At Large: Cultural Dimensions of Globalization (University of Minnesota Press, 2005).
Week 2: What Separates the Moderns from the Ancients?
_Screening_ : Hu An, _Shadow Magic_ (2000)
_Reading (excerpt)_
Giorgio Agamben, ‘Appendix. The Supreme Music: Music and Politics,’ _What Is Philosophy?_ , (Stanford University Press, 2018), 97-107.
Simone Weil, _The Need for Roots: Prelude to a Declaration of Duties Towards Mankind_ (Routledge, 2003).
Leo Strauss, _Natural Rights and History_ (University of Chicago Press, 2013).
Week 3: Humanity in Modernity
_Reading (excerpt)_
Michel Foucault. _Discipline and Punish_ (Vintage, 1977).
Marshall Berman, _All That Is Solid Melts into Air: The Experience of Modernity_ (Verso, 2010).
Walter Benjamin, ‘The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction,’ _Illuminations_ (Random House, 2015), 211-244.
Week 4: State in Modernity
_Reading (excerpt)_
Carl Schmitt, _Political Theology: Four Chapters on the Concept of Sovereignty_ (University of Chicago Press, 2010).
Louis Althusser, ‘Ideology and Ideological State Apparatus,’ _On the Reproduction of Capitalism_ (Verso, 2014).
Thomas Ertman. _Birth of the Leviathan_. (Cambridge University Press, 1997).
Week 5: Civilisation, Nation, and State
_Reading (excerpt)_
Benedict Anderson, _Imagined Communities: Reflections on the Origin and Spread of Nationalism_ (Verso, 2016).
Gellner E. _Nations and Nationalism_ (Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1983).
Nira Yuval-Davis, _Gender and Nation_ (SAGE, 1997).
Week 6: Imperialism, Colonialism, and Racism
_Reading (excerpt)_
Frantz Fanon, _The Wretched of the Earth_ (Grove Press, 2021).
Homi K. Bhabha,  _The Location of Culture_ (Routledge, 2012).
Ariella Azoulay, _Potential History: Unlearning Imperialism_ (Verso, 2019).
Anne McClintock, _Imperial Leather_ (Routledge, 2015).
Week 7: Wars, Totalitarianisms, and Holocaust
_Reading (excerpt)_
Boris Groys, _The Total Art of Stalinism_ (Verso, 2014).
James E. Young, _The Texture of Memory: Holocaust Memorials and Meaning_ (Yale University Press, 1993).
George Mosse, _Fallen Soldiers: Reshaping the Memory of the World Wars_ (Oxford University Press, 1990).
Zygmunt Bauman, _Modernity and the Holocaust_ (Polity, 2013).
Week 8: Self-determination, the UN, and the Global Order
Screening : Joshua Oppenheimer, _The Act of Killing_ (2012)
_Reading (excerpt)_
Carl Schmitt, _The Nomos of the Earth in the International Law of the Jus Publicum Europaeum_ (Telos, 2003).
James C. Scott, _The Art of Not Being Governed_. (Yale University Press, 2010).
Jeffrey Herbst, _States and Power in Africa_ (Princeton University Press, 2014).
Week 9: Soviet Modernity
_Screening_ : Robin Hessman, _My Perestroika_ (2010)
_Reading (excerpt)_
Pamela Kachurin, _Making Modernism Soviet: The Russian Avant-Garde in the Early Soviet Era, 1918-1928_ (Northwestern University Press, 2013).
Anna Lawton, _The Red Screen: Politics, Society, Art in Soviet Cinema_ (Routledge, 2003).
Martin Sixsmith, “The story of art in the Russian Revolution,” Royal Academy of Arts, https://www.royalacademy.org.uk/article/art-and-the-russian-revolution.
Week 10: The Liberal Modernity
_Screening_ : Wes Anderson, _The Grand Budapest Hotel_ (2014).
_Reading (excerpt)_
Zygmunt Bauman, _Liquid Modernity_ (Polity, 2013).
Jurgen Habermas, _The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere: An Inquiry Into a Category of Bourgeois Society_ (Polity, 2015).
Louis Menand, _The Free World: Art and Thought in the Cold War_ (Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2021).
Week 11: The End of History, or the Clash of Civilisations?
_Screening_ : James Tusty and Maureen Castle Tusty, _The Singing Revolution_ (2006).
_Reading (excerpt)_
Jean Baudrillard, _Simulacra and Simulations_ (University of Michigan Press, 1994).
Fukuyama, Francis. “The End of History?” _The National Interest_ , no. 16 (1989): 3–18.
Samuel P. Huntington, “The Clash of Civilizations?” _Foreign Affairs_ , 72 (3):1993.
Week 12: The War on Terror
_Screening_ : Richard Rowley, _Dirty Wars_ (2013).
_Reading (excerpt)_
W.J.T. Mitchell, _Cloning Terror: The War of Images, 9/11 to the Present_ (University of Chicago Press, 2011).
Judith Butler,  _Frames of War: When Is Life Grievable?_ (Verso, 2016).
Ashis Nandy: “A New Cosmopolitanism: Toward a Dialogue of Asian Civilizations”, in: Kuan-Hsing Chen ed., _Trajectories: Inter-Asia Cultural Studies_ (Routledge, 1998), 142-149.
Week 13: The Rise of China
_Screening_ : Frant Gwo, _The Wandering Earth_ (2019).
_Reading (excerpt)_
Kim Dae Jung, “Is Culture Destiny? The Myth of Asia's Anti-Democratic Values,” in Hwa Yol Jung ed., _Comparative Political Culture in the Age of Globalization: An Introductory Anthology_ (Lexington, 2002).
John Street,  _Music and Politics_ (Polity, 2012).
Chenyang Li, “Missing Links in the China Model,” _Philosophy East and West_ , 69(2):2019, 568-576.
Week 14: The Civil Resistance in the Non-West
_Screening_ : 
Guo Zen, _Ten Years_ (2015)
Waad Al-Kateab and Edward Watts, _For Sama_ (2019)
_Reading (excerpt)_
Mitchell, Timothy. “The Stage of Modernity.”  _Questions of Modernity_ , Timothy Mitchell ed. (University of Minnesota Press, 2000), 1–34.
Zeynep Tufekci, _Twitter and Tear Gas: The Power and Fragility of Networked Protest_ (Yale University Press, 2021).
Week 15: The Return of Wars: Russia, China, and the US
_Reading (excerpt)_
Susan Sontag, _Regarding the Pain of Others_ (Picador, 2004).
Achille Mbembe, _Necropolitics_ (Duke University Press, 2019).
Week 16: The Future of Art and State-Building
_Reading (excerpt)_
Bruno Latour, _We Have Never Been Modern_ (Harvard University Press, 1993).
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.