國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：台美中關係與國際體系
#####  Course Name: Taiwan, China and United State in the International System
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：265797001 Course No.265797001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太博一、亞太博二 Course Department:International Doctoral Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/D/1&2 
  * 授課老師：冷則剛 Instructor: LENG TSE-KANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一EFG Session: mon18-21
##  課程簡介Course Description
This is a seminar-based course. Students must participate actively in class discussions. Participants are required to finish the readings before the weekly class meeting starts.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備學術發表能力
  * C. 具備獨立研究能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Theories and policies on US-China rivalry, cross-strait relations, and other multi-disciplinary topics will be introduced in this course. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 16 週 Week 16 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 14 週 Week 14 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
# Spring 2025
# IMAS/IDAS Program, National Chengchi University
# US-China-Taiwan and the Global System 
Professor Tse-Kang Leng 冷則剛
Professor of Political Science
National Chengchi University
Research Fellow
Institute of Political Science, Academia Sinica
E-Mail: tkleng@sinica.edu.tw
TEL: 2652-5317
Course Requirements : This is a seminar-based course. Students must participate actively in class discussions. Participants are required to finish the readings before the weekly class meeting starts.
Registered students _must_ make at least two formal presentations in class:
  1. Choose one or two topics from the weekly sessions. You will help identifying key arguments of the reading materials and provide additional information in your oral presentations . 
  2. Present your “ pioneer paper proposal” in the last meetings of class.
Based on oral presentations, students will discuss and debate major viewpoints in class. 
Instructor will lead the discussions, lecture supplemental topics, and raise further questions. 
Grading:
Class participation and presentations: 65%
Pioneers proposal.: 35%
## _Course Schedule_ :
_Introduction and Organization_
_Background Review_
Sharif As-Saber and Charmine Hartel, “Cocktail geopolitics and the changing nature of governance”, _International Journal of Public Administration_ , 2023. 
Manfred Elsig, “Reflections on Geopolitics”, 2023
David Criekemans, “Grounding world politics anew: reflections on the continued relevance of geopolitics to the study of today’s international relations”, July, 2023
_The “China Threat” debate and Sino-American relations_
Suisheng Zhao,_The Dragon Roars Back,_ 2023., Chapter 4 
Joseph Nye, “Will the liberal order survive? History of an idea”, Foreign Affairs, Jan/Feb 2017, P. 10-16
Bateman, Jon. 2022. _U.S.-China Technological “Decoupling”: A Strategy and Policy Framework._ Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. P. 35-52
https://carnegieendowment.org/files/Bateman_US-China_Decoupling_final.pdf
_Continuity and change of Chinese foreign policy_
Yan Xuetong, 2014. “From Keeping a Low Profile to Striving for Achievement,” 
_The Chinese Journal of International Politics,_ Vol. 7, No. 2, pp. 153-184.
Kastner, Scott L. , Margaret M. Pearson, and Chad Rector. 2020. “China and Global Governance: Opportunistic Multilateralism.” _Global Policy_ , 11(1): 164-169.
Matt Ferchen & Mikael Mattlin, 2023. “Five Modes of China’s Economic Influence: Rethinking Chinese Economic Statecraft.” _The Pacific Review_ , Vol. 36, No. 5.
_US-China High-Tech Wars and Taiwan_
Larry Diamond ed. _Silicon Triangle_( Hoover Institution, 2023); Chapter 4, 5, 7. 
_Domestic sources of US-China Rivalry_
Linda Weissa and Elizabeth Thurbonb， “Developmental State or Economic Statecraft? Where, Why and How the Difference Matters”， _New Political Economy,_ 2021, VOL. 26, NO. 3, 472–489
# Yu Keping, 2018. “Governance and Good Governance: A New Framework for Political Analysis.” _Fudan Journal of the Humanities and Social Sciences_, Vol. 11, PP. 1-8.
Fewsmith, Joseph, 2021. “Balances, Norms and Institutions: Why Elite Politics in the CCP Have Not Institutionalized.” _The China Quarterly,_ Vol. 248, pp. 265-282.
### _Challenges of Cross-Strait relations_
Szu-yin Ho, “Cross Strait Relations,” Chapter 15, in _Dynamics of Democracy in Taiwan: The Ma Ying-jeou Years._ Lynne Rienner Publishers, Inc. (August 17, 2020) 
Dongtao Qi, Suixin Zhang & Shengqiao Lin, 2023. “Urban Chinese Support for Armed Unification with Taiwan: Social Status, National Pride, and Understanding of Taiwan.” _Journal of Contemporary China_ , Vol. 32, No. 143.
Thomas J. Christensen, M. Taylor Fravel, Bonnie S. Glaser, Andrew J. Nathan, Jessica Chen Weiss, “How to Avoid a War Over Taiwan: Threats, Assurances, and Effective Deterrence”, _Foreign Affairs,_ October 13, 2022
https://www.foreignaffairs.com/china/how-avoid-war-over-taiwan#author-info
_Video Comments and Discussion_
_midterm exam week_
_Major Power politics in the Arctic region: the US Perspective_
“Defending America’s Northern Border and Its Arctic Approaches”, Brookings Institute, 2023.
“Changes in the Arctic: Background and Issues for the Congress,” January 18, 2024 ; Keep updating
https://sgp.fas.org/crs/misc/R41153.pdf
_Major Power politics in the Arctic region: other players_
NBR Report, “Asian States’ Arctic approaches: Opportunities for engagement”, January, 2023.
https://www.nbr.org/publication/asian-states-arctic-approaches-opportunities-for-engagement/
Fuzuo Wu, 2023. “Shaping China’s Engagement with the Arctic: Nationalist Narratives and Geopolitical Reality.” _Journal of Contemporary China_ , Vol. 32, No. 143.
# _Strategies of small states and middle powers_
Ma X, Kang DC, 2023. “Why Vietnam is not Balancing China: Vietnamese Security Priorities and the Dynamics in Sino-Vietnam Relations.” _Journal of East Asian Studies_ , Vol. 23, No. 3.
Ryu, Yongwook, 2023. “South Korea's Role Conceptions and the Liberal International Order.” _International Affair_ s, Vol.99, No. 4, pp. 1439-1458.
Kuik Cheng-Chwee, 2020. “Hedging in Post-pandemic Asia: What , How , and Why,” The Asan Forum.
https://theasanforum.org/hedging-in-post-pandemic-asia-what-how-and-why/ .
_Culture_ _，_ _Memories, History and International relations_
Yuan-kang Wang, 2020. “The Durability of a Unipolar System: Lessons from
East Asian History,” _Security Studies_ , Vol, 29, No. 5, pp. 832-863.
David C. Kang, 2010. “Hierarchy and Legitimacy in International Systems: The Tribute System in Early Modern East Asia,” _Security Studies_ , Vol. 19, No. 4, pp. 591-622.
Nissim Otmazgin, 2021. “An "East Asian" Public Diplomacy? Lessons from Japan, South Korea, and China.” _Asian Perspective,_ Vol. 45, No. 3, pp. 621-644.
_flexible class_
_group discussion section I_
_group discussion section 2_
_conclusion_
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.