國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：美臺關係
#####  Course Name: US-Taiwan Relations
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：265782001 Course No.265782001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太博一、亞太博二、亞太博三 Course Department:International Doctoral Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/D/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：何漢理 Instructor: HARRY HARDING 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四34C Session: thu10-13
##  課程簡介Course Description
This is a graduate seminar intended for students in the International Master’s and Doctoral Programs in Asia Pacific Studies. It will provide an analytic history of Taiwan’s relationship with the United States, from the relocation of the Nationalist government from the mainland to Taiwan in the late 1940s to the present day. The course will examine several recurring themes in that relationship, including Taiwan's periodic sense of disappointment or even betrayal by the United States, particularly as Washington redefined its China policy in ways that had negative impacts on Taiwan's interests, and America’s occasional displeasure with Taiwan's domestic political system and its security posture toward the mainland. We will also explore how China's evolving efforts to promote unification with Taiwan have affected both Taiwanese and American perceptions of China and cross-strait relations.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備學術發表能力
  * C. 具備獨立研究能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
_Instructor_ : Harry Harding is a political historian specializing in the modern history of U.S. relations with China and Asia. His major publications include  _Organizing China: The Problem of Bureaucracy, 1949-1976_ ;  _China’s Second Revolution: Reform after Mao_ ;  _A Fragile Relationship: The United States and China since 1972_ ; and the chapter on the Cultural Revolution in the  _Cambridge History of China_. His edited volumes  _include China’s Foreign Relations in the 1980s; Sino-American Relations, 1945-1955: A Joint Reassessment of a Critical Decade (_ co-edited with Yuan Ming); and  _The India-China Relationship: What the United States Needs to Know_(co-edited with Francine R. Frankel). His next book, _A Broken Engagement: The United States and China from Clinton to Trump_ , is under contract with Polity.
Harding is concluding a three-year term as Yushan Scholar and University Chair Professor in the College of Social Science at NCCU. He is University Professor Emeritus and Professor of Public Policy Emeritus at the University of Virginia, where he is also a Senior Fellow in the Miller Center of Public Affairs. At UVa, Harding served as the founding dean of the Frank Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy between 2009 and 2014. Before joining the Batten School, he held faculty appointments at Swarthmore College and Stanford University, created the Asia Program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington and was a Senior Fellow in the Foreign Policy Studies Program at the Brookings Institution. From 1995 to 2005 he was Dean of the Elliott School of International Affairs at the George Washington University, and from 2005 to 2007 was Director of Research and Analysis at Eurasia Group, a political risk research and advisory firm based in New York. From 2005 to 2009 he was University Professor of International Affairs at GWU. He has served on the boards of several educational and non-profit institutions as well as on the U.S.-China Joint Commission on Science and Technology and the U.S. Defense Policy Board. A graduate of Princeton in public and international affairs, he holds a Ph.D. in political science from Stanford. 
Office hours, by appointment in Room 271346, North Block. Appointments can be made through hharding@virginia.edu or hharding@nccu.edu.tw
_Course assistant_ : Benedetto Fioravanti is a graduate student at National Chengchi University in the International Doctoral Program in Asia-Pacific Studies (IDAS). A native of Italy, Fioravanti received his bachelor’s and master’s degrees in international relations from the University of Bologna, with a period spent at the Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium. Upon graduation, Fioravanti interned at the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, working at the Embassy of Italy in Tallinn, Estonia. Subsequently, he furthered his education at the Italian Institute for International Political Studies in Milan and the Université Libre de Bruxelles in Belgium, after which he moved to Ireland to work for Air bnb in Cork. Since coming to Taiwan, Fioravanti studied Mandarin for about two years at National Taiwan Normal University. In his free time, he enjoys learning Chinese, traveling across Asia, watching movies and reading. He can be contacted at benedetto.fioravanti@gmail.com.
_Administrative assistant:_ Austen Wei manages Professor Harding’s office. She earned her BA in English literature from National Sun Yat-Sen University in Kaohsiung, and her MA in international relations from Durham University in the U.K., specializing in democratization in East Asia. She has extensive administrative experience at NCCU, including coordinating several of the university’s international programs and serving as the dean’s secretary at the newly established College of Global Banking and Finance, where she was responsible for budgeting, project management and general administration to ensure the college’s smooth and efficient operations. In addition to her work at NCCU, Austen is also a senior administrative manager at the Center for Asia-Pacific Resilience and Innovation in Taipei. She can be reached at austen@caprifoundation.org.
_Course mechanics_
The class will meet on Thursdays from 10.00 am to 1.00 pm in Room 271201 in the 12th floor of the North Block of the General Academic Building.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 6 週 Week 6 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
_Course Schedule and Readings_
  1. _February 20: Orientation and Introductions (NO READINGS ASSIGNED OR REACTION PAPERS DUE)_
  1. _February 27: The American Role in Taiwan’s Transformation from Japanese Colony to part of the Republic of China (FIRST REACTION PAPERS DUE)_
_Required Readings_
George H. Kerr, _Formosa Betrayed, “_ The Heart of the Matter,” “Foreword,” “Acknowledgments, _ch._ II, “Island X,” ch. VII, “Unwelcome Witnesses,” and ch.X, “The Search for Recognition.”
Richard C. Bush, _At Cross Purposes_ , ch. 2, “The Wartime Decision to Return Taiwan to China.”
Lin Hsiao-ting, “The Accidental State: The Making of Taiwan,” _Hoover Digest_ (Summer 2016).
_Recommended Readings_
Kerr, _Formosa Betrayed,_ ch. III, “Surrender on Formosa, 1945”; ch. IV, “Americans in Uniform;” ch. IX,“The Formosans’ Story: A Year of Disenchantment”; ch. XI, “On the Eve of Disaster”; ch. XII, “The February Incident, 1947”; “ch. XIV, “The March Massacre”; and ch. XV, “The Aftermath.” 
  1. _March 6: The Exclusion of Taiwan from the American Defense Perimeter in Asia_
_Required Readings_
Dean Acheson, “Speech on the Far East (excerpts),” National Press Club, January 12, 1950.
Russell D. Buhite, "’Major Interests’": American Policy toward China, Taiwan, and Korea, 1945-1950 _, Pacific Historical Review_ , 47 (1978), pp. 425-451.
  1. _March 13: The Renewal of the American Security Commitment to Taiwan during and after the Korean War_
_Required Readings_
Shannon Tiezzi, “How Eisenhower Saved Taiwan,” _The Diplomat,_ July 29, 2015.
William I. Hitchcock, _The Age of Eisenhower: America and the World in the 1950_ s, chs. 8 -9. 
Marshall Green, “Working with Dulles.” [on the 1958 Taiwan Straits Crisis]
  1. _March 20:__Discussion of Term Paper Requirement_
(CLASS BEGINS AT 11:00 AM )
  1. _March 27: The unsuccessful American Attempt to Obtain China's Renunciation of Force Against Taiwan_
_Required Readings_
Kenneth T. Young, _Negotiating with the Chinese_ Communists, ch. 4, “Impasse over the Renunciation of Force and over Taiwan.”
Leonard H. D. Gordon, “United States Opposition to Use of Force in the Taiwan Strait, 1954-1962,” J _ournal of American History_(1985), pp. 637-660.
  1. _April 3: NO CLASS: TOMB SWEEPING HOLIDAY_
  1. _April 10 : __One China or Two?_
_Required Readings_
Bush _, At Cross Purposes_ , ch. 4, “The Status of the ROC and Taiwan, 1950 – 1972.”
Nancy Bernkopf Tucker, “John Foster Dulles and the Taiwan Roots of the Two China Policy,” in Richard H. Immerman (ed.), _John Foster Dulles and the Diplomacy of the Cold War._
  1. _April 17: Why and How the US Prevented Taiwan from Acquiring a Nuclear Deterrent(TERM PAPER TOPICS DUE)_
_Required Readings_
“Taiwan’s Bomb,” _National Security Archive Briefing Book_ , January 10, 2019
David Albright and Andrea Stricker, _Taiwan’s Former Nuclear Weapons Program: Nuclear Weapons on Demand._
  1. _April 24 _:___From Two Chinas Back to One: The Normalization of U.S.-China Relations_
_Required Readings_
Nancy Bernkopf Tucker, “Taiwan Expendable? Nixon and Kissinger Go to China,” _Journal of American History_ , 92 (2005), pp. 109-135.
_Recommended Readings_
Richard C. Bush, _At Cross Purposes_ , ch. 5, “The ‘Sacred Texts’ of United States –China -Taiwan Relations.”
David Ta-wei Lee,_The Making of the Taiwan Relations Act: Twenty Years in Retrospect_
  1. _May 1: China’s Demands for Limits on Arms Sales to Taiwan and the Reagan Administration’s response_
_Required Readings_
“Declassified Cables: Taiwan Arm Sales and The Six Assurances” https://www.ait.org.tw/declassified-cables-taiwan-arms-sales-six-assurances-1982/?_ga=2.13221171.509512087.1692937279-402688503.1692937279
President Ronald Reagan, “The August ’82 Communique and Reagan’s Interpretation”
https://www.ait.org.tw/u-s-prc-joint-communique-1982/
Harvey Feldman, “President Reagan's Six Assurances to Taiwan and Their Meaning Today”
https://www.heritage.org/asia/report/president-reagans-six-assurances-taiwan-and-their-meaning-today
  1. _May 8: Further adjustments in America's Taiwan policy_
_Required Readings_
Winston Lord, “Taiwan, Statement before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Washington, DC, September 27, 1994.
  1. _May 15: China’s evolving Taiwan policy: From Carrots to Sticks_
_Required Readings_
Huang Jing and Li Xiaoting, _Inseparable Separation: The Making of China’s Taiwan Policy_ , Introduction.
Chen-yuan Tung, Assessment of China’s Taiwan Policy under the Third Generation Leadership,” _Asian Survey,_ 45 ((2005), pp. 344-61.
Xin Qiang, “Selective Engagement: Mainland China’s Dual-Track Taiwan
Policy,” _Contemporary_ China, 29 (2020), pp. 535–552.
Wei-chin Lee, “Multiple Shades of China’s Taiwan Policy after the 19th Party Congress,” J _ournal of Asian and African Studies_ , 55 (2020), pp. 201-20.
_Recommended Readings_
Gerald Chan, “The "Two-Chinas" Problem and the Olympic Formula”
  1. _May 22: How the Deterioration of US-China Relations Affected America’s Taiwan Policy_
_Required Readings_
Bob Davis and Lingling Wei, _Superpower Showdown_ , ch. 9, “Flood the Zone.”
Ryan Hass, “After Lifting restrictions on US Taiwan Relations What Comes Next?” https://www.brookings.edu/articles/after-lifting-restrictions-on-us-taiwan-relations-what-comes-next/
Wikipedia, “2022 Visit by Nancy Pelosi to Taiwan” https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2022_visit_by_Nancy_Pelosi_to_Taiwan
Raymond Kuo, “’Strategic Ambiguity’ Has the U.S. and Taiwan Trapped” 
https://foreignpolicy.com/2023/01/18/taiwan-us-china-strategic-ambiguity-military-strategy-asymmetric-defense-invasion/
Steven M. Goldstein, “In Defense of Strategic Ambiguity in the Taiwan Strait.” 
https://www.nbr.org/publication/in-defense-of-strategic-ambiguity-in-the-taiwan-strait/
_Michael R. Pompeo,_ “Lifting Self-Imposed Restrictions on the U.S. Taiwan Relationship” https://2017-2021.state.gov/lifting-self-imposed-restrictions-on-the-u-s-taiwan-relationship/
_Recommended Readings_
Harry Harding, “Has U.S. China Policy failed?”
  1. _May 29: Is America’s Semiconductor Policy Another Betrayal?_
_Required Readings_
Johanna M. Costigan and Aidan Powers-Riggs, “U.S. shouldn’t Make Its Semiconductor Policy All About China: American Chip Policy Doesn’t Just Hurt China: It Hurts Taiwan, Too.” 
https://restofworld.org/2023/us-semiconductor-policy-china-taiwan/
Syaru Shirley Lin, “Taiwan: “Walking the Tightrope between The United States and China.”
https://www.shirleylin.net/all-publications/taiwan-walking-the-tightrope-between-the-united-states-and-china
Aidan Powers-Riggs, “Taipei Fears Washington Is Weakening Its Silicon Shield” https://foreignpolicy.com/2023/02/17/united-states-taiwan-china-semiconductors-silicon-shield-chips-act-biden/
_Recommended Readings_
Alexander Neill, “Doubts Grow on Taiwan's Silicon Shield.” https://www.gisreportsonline.com/r/china-taiwan-silicon-shield/
John Liu and Paul Mozur , “TSMC Chairman Mark Liu Says Company Will Keep Its Roots in Taiwan"
https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/04/technology/tsmc-mark-liu.html
  1. _June 5: Can Taiwan Be Successfully Defended? What Would a War in the Taiwan Strait Look Like?_
_Required Readings_
Tanner Greer, “Why I Fear for Taiwan.”
https://scholars-stage.org/why-i-fear-for-taiwan/
Mark F. Cancion et al., “The First Battle of the Next Warr: Wargaming a Chinese Invasion of Taiwan.” 
https://csis-website-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs-public/publication/230109_Cancian_FirstBattle_NextWar.pdf?VersionId=WdEUwJYWIySMPIr3ivhFolxC_gZQuSOQ“public/publication/230109_Cancian_FirstBattle_NextWar.pdf?VersionId=WdEUwJYWIySMPIr3ivhFolxC_gZQuSOQ
Peter Ong, “CSIS Wargame: Wargaming a Chinese Invasion of Taiwan in 2026,” _Naval News_ , March 1, 2023.
https://www.navalnews.com/naval-news/2023/01/csis-wargame-chinas-invasion-of-taiwan-in-2026/
Bonnie Lin, Samantha Lu, et al., “ How China Could Blockade Taiwan”
https://features.csis.org/chinapower/china-blockade-taiwan/
Matthew Becerra, “The Battle for Reality: Chinese Disinformation in Taiwan,” _Geopolitical Monitor,_ August 24, 2022
https://www.geopoliticalmonitor.com/the-battle-for-reality-chinese-disinformation-in-taiwan/
_Recommended Readings_
Ian Easton, _The Chinese Invasion Threat, Taiwan's Defense and American Strategy in Asia_.
  1. _June 12: Can Taiwan Trust the United States to Come to its Defense During Trump 2.0?_
_Required Readings_
Hankyoreh, “Growing skepticism in Taiwan — not about China, but the US”
https://english.hani.co.kr/arti/english_edition/e_international/1088733.html
John Mearsheimer,
Elbridge A. Colby, “Why Protecting Taiwan Really Matters to the U.S.” https://time.com/6221072/why-protecting-taiwan-really-matters-to-the-u-s/
Elbridge A. Colby, “Letters: The U.S. and Taiwan Must Change Course.”
Lev Nachman, “Will Trump take the Musk Path or the Rubio Path on Taiwan? Uncertainty and Unpredictability Cloud the Future of the U.S.-Taiwan Relationship.”
https://asia.nikkei.com/Opinion/Will-Trump-take-the-Musk-path-or-the-Rubio-path-on-Taiwan
Austin Ramzy, “Taiwan Worries About Its Future Under Trump 2.0.” 
_Recommended Readings_
Charles L. Glaser, “Washington Is Avoiding the Tough Questions on Taiwan and China: The Case for Reconsidering U.S. Commitments in East Asia.” 
https://www.viet-studies.net/kinhte/ReconsideringChinaTaiwan_FA.pdf
  1. _June_ _19: C_ _onclusions_ _TERM PAPERS DUE_
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.