國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：東南亞族群發展
#####  Course Name: Seminar on Ethnic Development in Southeast Asia
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：265831001 Course No.265831001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太博一、亞太博二、亞太博三 Course Department:International Doctoral Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/D/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：劉曉鵬 Instructor: LIU HSIAO PONG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12 
##  課程簡介Course Description
This seminar will explores the relationship between ethnic minorities and states from colonial to contemporary period in Southeast Asia, with particular attention to how nation-states attempt to incorporate and assimilate multiethnic populations into their unified national identity and discourse of nationalism.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備學術發表能力
  * C. 具備獨立研究能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
On completion of this course, students shall be able to 
  * demonstrate historical and contemporary knowledge of economic, political, and social aspects of Southeast Asian ethnicities. 
  * understand contemporary trends in Southeast Asian ethnic studies.
  * discuss relevant empirical cases exemplifying how politics have influenced ethnic conflict and cooperation in Southeast Asia. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
18週18 weeks | 無彈性補充教學週No flexible supplemental instruction week  
Class 1: Introduction
Class 2: Imagined Communities
Benedict Anderson, _Imagined Communities: Reflections on the Origin and Spread of Nationalism_ (New York: Verso, 2006), pp 141-206. 
Roger Ballard, “Race, Ethnicity and Culture” in Martin Horborn (ed), _New Direction in Sociology_ , (Ormskirk: Causeway, 2002), pp1-44.
Class 3: Situational Ethnicity
Ines M. Miyares, “Local Culture in Hawaii,” _Geographical Review_ , vol. 98 No 4 (Oct 2008), 513-531.
Douglas M. Stayman and Rohit Deshpande, “Ethnicity and Consumer Behavior,” _Journal of Consumer Research_ , Vol. 16, No. 3 (Dec., 1989), pp. 361-371
Class 4: Religion and Ethnicity
Nathan J. Kelly and Jana Morgan Kelly, “Religion and Latino Partisanship in the United States,” _Political Research Quarterly_ 58, No 1, 87-95 
M. Hakan Yavuz, “Five stages of the construction of Kurdish Nationalism in Turkey,”
_Nationalism & Ethnic Politics_ 7, no. 3 (2001), 1-24. 
Class 5: Ethnic Politics
Nelson Kasfir, “Explaining Ethnic Political Participation,” _World Politics_ 31, No 3 (April 1979), 378-385. 
Milton J. Esman, “Ethnic Politics and Economic Power,” _Comparative Politics_ , Vol 19, No 4, 395-418.
Class 6: Foucauldian Approaches
G. Burchell, “Peculiar Interest: Civil society and Governing ‘the System of Natural Liberty.” In Burchell, G. Gordon, C. and Miller, P. eds. _The Foucault Effect: Studies in Governmentality_ (Hemel Hempstead: Harvester Wheatsheaf, 1992) 119-151
M. Foucault, “Governmentality.” In Burchell, G. Gordon, C. and Miller, P. eds. _The Foucault Effect: Studies in Governmentality_ (Hemel Hempstead: Harvester Wheatsheaf, 1992) 87-104
Colin. Gordon, “Governmental Rationality: An Introduction.” In Burchell, G. Gordon, C. and Miller, P. eds. _The Foucault Effect: Studies in Governmentality_ (Hemel Hempstead: Harvester Wheatsheaf, 1992) 1-52.
Class 7: the Philippines
Paul A. Kramer, “Race-Making and Colonial Violence in the U.S. Empire,” _Diplomatic History_ , Vol 30, no 2, 169-210. 
Kazuya Yamamoto, “Nation-Building and Integration Policy in the Philippines” _Journal of Peace Research_ , Vol 44, No 2, pp 195-213.
Class 8: Myanmar
Ian Holliday, “National Unity Struggles in Myanmar,” _Asian Survey_ , Vol 47, No 3, 374-392. 
Ian Holliday, Maw Htun Aung and Cindy Joelene, “Institution Building in Myanmar,” _Asian Survey_ , Vol 55, No 4, 641-664. 
Class 9: Thailand
Michael R. Rhum, “Modernity and Tradition in Thailand” _Modern Asian Studies_ , Vol 30, No 2, 325-355. 
Frederic C. Deyo, “Ethnicity and Work Culture in Thailand: A Comparison of Thai and 
Thai-Chinese White-Collar Workers” _Journal of Asian Studies_ , Vol 34, No 4, 995-1015.
Wen-Chin Chang, “From War Refugees to Immigrants: The Case of the KMT Yunnanese Chinese in Northern Thailand,” _The International Migration Review_ , Vol 35, No 4 (winter 2001), 1086-1105
Class 10: Quiz
Class 11: Indonesia I
Peter Dauvergne, “The Politics of Deforestation in Indonesia,” _Pacific Affairs_ , Vol 66 No 4 (Winter 1993), 497-518. 
David Henley and Jamie S. Davidson, “In the Name of Adat: Regional Perspectives on Reform, Tradition, and Democracy in Indonesia” _Modern Asian Studies_ , Vol 42, No 4, (July 2008), 815-852.
Class 12: Indonesia II
Alison M. Buttenheim and Jenna Nobles, “Ethnic diversity, traditional norms, and marriage behaviour in Indonesia,” Population Studies, Vol 63, No 3 (Nov 2009), 277-294. 
Rizal Sukma, “Indonesia-China Relations: The Politics of Re-engagement,” Asia Survey, Vol 49, No 4, 591-608.
Shichi Mike Lan, “’Crime’ of interpreting: Taiwanese interpreters as war criminals of the Second World War”
Class 13: Malaysia I
Judith Strauch, “Multiple Ethnicities in Malaysia: The Shifting Relevance of Alternative Chinese Categories,” _Modern Asian Studies_ , Vol 15, No 2 (1981), 235-260.
Viswanathan Selvaratnam, “Ethnicity, Inequality, and Higher Education in Malaysia” _Comparative Education Review_ , Vol 32, No 2 (May 1988), 173-196. 
Class 14: Malaysia II
Charles Hirschman, “The Meaning and Measurement of Ethnicity in Malaysia: An Analysis of Census Classifications,” _Comparative Education Review_ , Vol 46, No 3 (August 1987), 555-582. 
Kamal Sadiq, “When States Prefer Non-Citizens over Citizens: Conflict over Illegal Immigration into Malaysia,” _International Studies Quarterly_ , Vol 49, No 1 (March 2005), 101-122.
Class 15: Singapore I
Jianli Huang and Lysa Hong, “Chinese Diasporic Culture and National Identity: The Taming of the Tiger Balm Gardens in Singapore,” _Modern Asian Studies_ , Vol 41, No1, 41-76. 
Eugene K. B. Tan, “Re-Engaging Chineseness: Political, Economic and Cultural Imperatives of Nation-Building in Singapore,” _The China Quarterl_ y, No 175 (Sep 2003), 751-774. 
Class 16: Singapore II
Lee Tong Soon, Chinese Theatre, Confucianism, and Nationalism: Amateur Chinese Opera Tradition in Singapore, Asian Theatre Journal, Vol 24, No 2 (Fall 2007), 397-421. 
Hussin Mutalib, “The Singapore Minority Dilemma,” _Asian Survey_ , Vol. 51, No. 6 (December 2011), pp. 1156-1171.
Class 17: Student Presentations
Class 18: Quiz and Final Paper Submission
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.