國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：發展與政策
#####  Course Name: Development and Policy
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：265910001 Course No.265910001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太博一、亞太博二、亞太博三 Course Department:International Doctoral Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/D/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：湯京平 Instructor: TANG CHING-PING 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12 
##  課程簡介Course Description
This is a doctoral level seminar that demands heavy readings and intensive in-class discussion. It will cover issues in development and politics as well as policies in responding to these issues. Concrete cases will be brought up for demonstration purpose.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備學術發表能力
  * C. 具備獨立研究能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course will adopt a comparative perspective to discuss the dynamics and synergy between state and society in a globalized context. It is a doctoral level seminar that aims at triggering interests in researching on related phenomena and issues. Through the introduction of theories on development and empirical cases, this class will analyze institutions, strategies, and governing models to build up a knowledge base for doctoral students to conduct germane research.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Theme One: Theoretical Foundations
Week 1 Overall Introduction
Week 2 Analytical Approach
Thelen, Kathleen, 1999. “Historical Institutionalism in Comparative Politics,” _American Review of Political Science_ 2: 369-404.
Frey, Bruno, and Stephan Meier, 2003, “Pro-social Behavior in a Natural Setting,” _Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization_ 54: 65-88.
Levi, Margaret 1997. "A Model, A Method and a Map: Rational Choice in Comparative and Historical Analysis," in Mark Lichbach and Alan Zuckerman eds., _Comparative Politics_. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press.
Week 3 Development in the Context of Globalization
Stiglitz, Joseph E., 2003. Globalization and Its Discontents. New York, NY: W.W. Norton. pp. 23-88.
Week 4 Liberal Approach, Neoliberalism
Amsden, Alice H. 2001. The Rise of “The Rest”: Challenges to the West from Late-Industrializing Economies. New York, NY: Oxford University Press. pp. 31-121.
Fagerberg, Jan, Martin Srholec, and Mark Knell, 2007. “The Competitiveness of Nations: Why Some Countries Prosper While Others Fall Behind”, World Development 35 (10): 1595-1620.
Week 5 Rational Choice Perspective
Bates, Robert H., 1981. Markets and States in Tropical Africa: The Political Basis of Agricultural Policies. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press.
Meier, Stephan. 2007. “A Survey of Economic Theories and Field Evidence on Pro-Social Behavior.” In Economics and Psychology: A Promising New Cross-Disciplinary Field, eds. Bruno S. Frey, and Alois Stutzer. Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press, pp. 51-88. PDF
Week 6 Continental Approach: Foucault, Bourdieu
Nustad, Knut, 2001. “Development: The Devil We Know?” Third World Quarterly 2 (4): 479-489. 
Peet, Richard and Elartwick Hartwick, 2009. Theories of Development: Contentions, Arguments, Alternatives. New York, NY: Guilford Press.
Assignment : Offer the topic of your term paper
Week 7 How Institutions/Policies Matters?
Acemoglu, Daron and James A. Robinson, 2012. Why Nations Fall. New York, NY: Crown. 
Haber, Stephen, Armando Razo, Noel Maurer, 2004. The Politics of Property Rights: Political Instability, Credible Commitments, and Economic Growth in Mexico, 1876-1929. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press.
Theme Two: Dynamics and Synergetic Development
Week 8 Economic, Social, and Political Interactions
Morduch, Jonathan. 1999. “The Microfinance Promise.” Journal of Economic Literature 37: 1569-1614. PDF
Fukuyama, Francis. 2001. “Social Capital, Civil Society and Development.” Third World Quarterly 22 (1): 7-20. PDF
Week 9 Political and Social Interaction
Wang, Xu. 1999. “Mutual empowerment of state and society: Its Nature, Conditions, Mechanisms, and Limits” Comparative Politics 31 (2): 231-49. PDF
Assignment: Offer Term Paper Outline
Week 10: Just and Sustainable Development
Hopwood, Bill, Mary Mellor, Geoff O'Brien, 2005. “Sustainable Development: Mapping Different Approaches,” Sustainable Development 13 (1): 38-52.
Week 11: Elements, Factors, Routes and Modes of Development
Piketty, Thomas (Goldhammer, Arthur), 2014. Capital in the Twenty-First Century. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Week 12 Civil, Economic and Political Dynamics
Putnam, Robert, 1993. Making Democracy Work: Civic Traditions in Modern Italy. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Woolcock, Michael, 1998. “Social Capital and Economic Development: Toward a Theoretical Synthesis and Policy Framework,” _Theory and Society_ , 27: 151-208.
Week 13 Mid-term Examination
Theme Three: Developmental Challenges and Institutions Solutions
Week 14 Challenges and Responding Strategies
Powell, Walter and Kaisar Snellman, 2004, “The Knowledge Economy,” Annual review of Sociology, 30: 199-220.
Chandler, Alfred D., and Takashi Hikino. 1997. “The Large Industrial Enterprise and the Dynamics of Modern Growth,” in Chandler et al. eds., Big Business and the Wealth of Nations. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press.
Week 15 Alternative Development
Pieterse, Nederveen, 1998. “My Paradigm or Yours? Alternative Development, Post-Development, Reflexive Development,” Development and Change, 29, 343-373.
Week 16-18 Mini-conference
####  其他： Others: 田野調查及場域參訪 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.