國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：專題三：大數據與社會分析
#####  Course Name: Specialized Course III (GTIM): Big Data for Social Analysis
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：266847001 Course No.266847001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：應社碩一、應社碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program of Applied Economics and Social Development/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：卞中佩 Instructor: Pien Chung-pei 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12 
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is an introduction and practice for data analysis for social analysis. In recent years, the application of Big Data has become an important trend in almost every field. This course employs a project-driven strategy that students are able to follow the instructors’ steps about how a data project is developed and how to use R programming to finish a project for academic studies, business analysis, and data journalism.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備獨立研究能力
  * C. 具備學術發表能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
There are two sections in this course. The first is R programming’s basic coding skills in 5 weeks. This section will teach basic data mining skills. The second section will provide advanced R coding skills. You are required to develop a research project with your teammates by end of the course. Lastly, this course is designed to provide you with the basic ability to become a member of a professional data analysis team.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week 1: Introduction of the Course (2024/2/20)
Introduction: Data analysis, statistics, and social science
Section 1: Basic R Coding Skills
Week 2: R, Vector, and Object (2024/2/27)
Chapter 1, 2, & 4, Machlis, Sharon. 2019. Practical R for Mass Communication and Journalism. CRC Press
Chapter 1 & 2 in Kabacoff, Robert. 2015. R in Action, Data Analysis and Graphics with R. Manning Publications; 2 Edition
Week 3: Dataframe and Import Data (2024/3/6)
Chapter 4 & 5, Machlis, Sharon. 2019. Practical R for Mass Communication and Journalism. CRC Press
Chapter 4 in Kabacoff, Robert. 2015. R in Action, Data Analysis and Graphics with R. Manning Publications; 2 Edition
Week 4: Advanced Dataframe Manipulation (2024/3/13)
Data-wrangling-cheatsheet
Week 5: Data Mining and Visualization (2024/3/20)
Chapter 6 & 9, Machlis, Sharon. 2019. Practical R for Mass Communication and Journalism. CRC Press
Chapter 7 in Kabacoff, Robert. 2015. R in Action, Data Analysis and Graphics with R. Manning Publications; 2 Edition
Section 2: Advanced R Coding Skills
Week 6: Loop (2024/3/27)
Chapter 5 & 7, Machlis, Sharon. 2019. Practical R for Mass Communication and Journalism. CRC Press
Week 7: Spring Break (2021/4/3)
Week 8: Time Series Analysis (2021/4/10)
Week 9: Midterm Exam (2021/4/17)
Week 10: Form Data Mining to Project Development (2021/4/24)
Week 11: Text Mining (2021/5/1)
Online Lesson：http://regexone.com/
Week 12: Final Project Proposal Presentation (2021/5/8)
Week 13: Geographic Information System (2021/5/15)
Week 14: Web Crawler: Basic (2021/5/22)
Week 15: Table and Dynamic Web Page Scraping (2021/5/29)
Week 16: Final Presentation (2021/6/2) Monday Morning
Week 17: Final Paper Workshop (2021/6/12)
Week 18: Final Paper Writing (2021/6/19)
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.