國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際貿易
#####  Course Name: International Trade
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：266909001 Course No.266909001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：應社碩一、應社碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program of Applied Economics and Social Development/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：李慧琳 Instructor: LEE HUEY-LIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16 
##  課程簡介Course Description
The world is now highly globalized in a myriad of dimensions that influence largely every country regardless of its extent of trade openness. Global trade is regarded as a key driver for the economic growth of nearly all countries. This is particularly true for emerging economies in East Asia and Southeast Asia – after China and India, Viet Nam is believed to be the next growth engine for the global economy. This course is designed to introduce to under-/post-graduate students the concepts, theories, and policies of international trade. To build the basis for understanding trade and its impact on individual countries of various contexts, we elucidate classical and neoclassical theories and perspectives on international trade. Further, the students are asked to conduct a literature review, through group projects, on current trade-related issues based on the knowledge of trade theories learned from the lectures.
**In case you cannot attend the first-week class, you may join us via Google Meet:  
113-2 International Trade - Huey-Lin Lee  
Google Meet access：https://meet.google.com/kjj-jvgg-rwn**
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備獨立研究能力
  * C. 具備學術發表能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is designed to introduce to under-/post-graduate students the concepts, theories, and policies of international trade. The economic theories underpinning international trade to be covered in this course include classical and neoclassical models of trade, Heckscher-Ohlin trade theory, and post-Heckscher-Ohlin trade theories. Instruments of trade policy and their welfare effects will also be introduced. Group projects by the students on political/economic impact analysis of current trade issues and policies will culminate with the course, in which students review relevant literature and apply theory to verify the authors’ reasoning on the topic investigated. The participants will get experience in doing academic literature review and writing-up, in addition to the knowledge of trade theories.
We also offer a brief overview on the literature addressing the nexus between trade, economy and sustainable development. As countries derive additional economic benefits from trade in the increasingly globalized world, environmental stress tends to follow trade as the environment (by accommodating pollution or providing natural resources) are used as input for producing exported goods. Inextricably linked with economic activities, environmental quality and natural resource endowment particularly in developing countries are facing tremendous stress from far and near. Developing countries follow the same path of development as developed countries and thrive their economies on trade. Yet it has been alerted that sustainable development in both the economy and environment for developing countries may be concerned. A good grasp of the economy-environment nexus from both economy-wide and world-wide perspectives is imperative and helpful in guiding pertinent policies for developing countries, particularly emerging economies in Asia, to effectively tackle the dual challenge of sustainability transition.
Topics covered in this course:
1. The World of International Economics
2. Classical Theory of Trade: Early Trade Theories
3. Classical Theory of Trade: The Classical World of David Ricardo and Comparative Advantage
4. Classical Theory of Trade: Extensions and Tests of the Classical Model of Trade
5. Neoclassical Trade Theory: Tools to be Employed
6. Neoclassical Trade Theory: Gains from Trade in Neoclassical Theory
7. Neoclassical Trade Theory: Offer Curves and the Terms of Trade
8. Neoclassical Trade Theory: Factor Endowments and the Heckscher-Ohlin Model
9. Neoclassical Trade Theory: Empirical Tests of the Factor Endowments Approach
10. Additional Theories and Extensions
11. Trade Policy
12. The nexus between trade, economy and sustainable development
13. Oral Presentations and Written Reports of Group Projects
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Part I. Weekly lectures:
週次 |  課程內容與指定閱讀 |  教學活動與課前、課後作業 |  學生學習投入時間 （含課堂教學時數）  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  The World of International Economics (1 week) |  Lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
2 |  Classical Theory of Trade: Early Trade Theories (1 week) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
3 |  Classical Theory of Trade: The Classical World of David Ricardo and Comparative Advantage (1 week) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
4 |  Classical Theory of Trade: Extensions and Tests of the Classical Model of Trade (1 week) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
5 |  Neoclassical Trade Theory: Tools to be Employed (1 week) |  Lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
6, 7 |  Neoclassical Trade Theory: Gains from Trade in Neoclassical Theory (2 weeks) |  Lecture/ text pre-study |  2*(3+4.5)  
8 |  Library resource workshop and project preliminary presentation (1 week) |  Lecture/hands-on exercise/student presentations |  3+4.5  
9, 10 |  Neoclassical Trade Theory: Offer Curves and the Terms of Trade (2 weeks) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  2*(3+4.5)  
11 |  Neoclassical Trade Theory: Factor Endowments and the Heckscher-Ohlin Model (1 week) |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
12 |  Neoclassical Trade Theory: Empirical Tests of the Factor Endowments Approach |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
13 |  The nexus between trade, economy and sustainable development |  lecture/ text pre-study |  3+4.5  
14 |  Final exam (1 week) |  Do exam |  3+ as much as possible.  
15 |  Oral Presentations of the Group Projects (3 weeks) |  student presentations |  3+ as much as possible.  
16 |  Oral Presentations of the Group Projects (3 weeks) |  student presentations |  3+ as much as possible.  
17 |  Oral Presentations of the Group Projects (3 weeks) |  student presentations |  3+ as much as possible.  
17 |  Trade Policy (key reference for projects) |  student presentations |  3+ as much as possible.  
18 |  Written Reports of the Group Projects |  student presentations in writing. |  3+ as much as possible.  
Part II. Group projects:
Students are asked to establish small groups (of four to five people in size) and to conduct literature review and analysis on trade related issues or policies, based on the theories and analytical framework as introduced in the course. Students need to find their partners themselves for the group project, and to make a preliminary presentation on the project topic and outline, on the class session of the university scheduled mid-term exam week. Groups have to set their work schedule and management plan for the project. Formal presentations of the group projects consist of two parts: oral and written (both in English). Written reports on the group projects shall be submitted by the last week of the semester.
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.