國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：商用寫作與口語訓練（二）
#####  Course Name: Business Writing and Oral Training II
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：300749031 Course No.300749031
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：商院選修 Course Department:Commerce/B/0 
  * 授課老師：鄺慧琪 Instructor: KWONG WAI-KEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
Business Writing and Oral Training II is a continuation of the comprehensive training in students' speaking skills as well as composition writing skills at the college level. With the confidence that students have developed during the first-semester training in using the English language, students will continue to polish their communication skills to effectively deliver their messages in a natural yet assertive way and to enhance their improvisation skills to reach and engage their audience, readers, and listeners.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Students will have opportunities to work individually to foster learner autonomy and also in groups to develop team spirit. By the end of this course, students will have developed the skills to express their ideas and opinions logically and structurally on a wide range of topics. Students will also have developed proper writing habits and can write persuasively and coherently.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
Tentative Schedule: (_subject to change according to students' progress_)
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student Workload Expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 |  Untying Your Tongue; Waking Up Your Brain |  Socializing in English; Vocal Warm Up |  Speaking, Speaking, and More Speaking! |  3 |  1  
2 |  Skillful Use of Phrasal Verbs |  Come On! |  Cheer Up! |  3 |  3  
3 |  More Composition Writing |  Structure & Organization |  The Essence of Composition Writing |  3 |  3  
4 |  “Write Like You Write”; The World of AI |  Written Expressions vs. Colloquial Expressions  |  Writing =/= Speaking |  3 |  3  
5 |  Comparison & Contrast Writing; 20somethings!; FGT1 |  Comparison & Contrast: What? How? Why? |  Feeling Personality Change? |  3 |  3  
6 |  Writing with Quality; Similar or Different?; FGT2  |  Writing Skills; More Comparison & Contrast |  Comparing & Contrasting |  3 |  3  
7 |  (Intercollegiate Activity Week) |  Go! Go! Go! |  Go! Go! Go! |  0 |  1  
8 |  ETP Game Show #1; Fun Facts & Trivia; Exercising Your Creativity |  Rebus Puzzles |  Are You a Wise Man or a Wise Guy? |  3 |  3  
9 |  Want to Be a Millionaire?; Easter Egg Hunt; FGT3 |  How To Become Rich? |  Where Are The Eggs? |  3 |  3  
10 |  ETP Game Show #2; Feeling Confused?; Joking Around; FGT4 |  Commonly Confused Words |  Are You Confused? |  3 |  3  
11 |  ETP Game Show #3; Be An Entrepreneur |  Starting Your Own Business |  Turning Problems Into Business Ideas |  3 |  3  
12 |  ETP Game Show #4; Opinion Writing; Surprise for Mom |  Haiku 5-7-5 |  Asking “Why?” to Brainstorm |  3 |  3  
13 |  ETP Game Show #5; Imagined Situations; FGT5 |  It Didn’t Happen; It Will Not Happen  |  Impossible Future Situations  |  3 |  3  
14 |  (Sports Day) |  Run, Run, Run! |  Good Luck! |  0 |  1  
15 |  Food Idioms |  It’s Bananas! |  Use Your Noodle! |  3 |  3  
16 |  Freshman Year Reflection; ETP Project |  It’s Sharing Time |  Reveal Your Progress |  3 |  3  
17 |  ~ Individual Conference ~ |  Meet with the Instructor |  Meet with the Instructor |  3 |  3  
18 |  ~ Individual Conference ~ |  Meet with the Instructor |  Meet with the Instructor |  3 |  3  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.