國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：職涯發展
#####  Course Name: Career Development
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：300753001 Course No.300753001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：商院碩士 Course Department:Commerce/M/0 
  * 授課老師：曹銀愛 Instructor: EUNAE CHO 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12 
##  課程簡介Course Description
In today’s fast-paced, ever-changing world of work, planning and managing careers is a critical lifelong process for everyone. This course introduces fundamental theories and concepts in the area of career development and encourages you to apply the knowledge for effective management of your own career. This class is organized along the following themes: (1) introduction, (2) theories of and approaches to career development, (3) career choices and decisions, and (4) issues in career development.
You will engage in a variety of learning activities, including but not limited to lectures, hands-on activities, team/class discussions, case studies, quizzes, and presentations. Each week, mini-lectures will be offered to highlight the conceptual foundation and the practical implications of key theories and principles in the field of career development. Hands-on activities, team/class discussions, and case studies will help you better understand important concepts from the texts and develop skills to analyze and manage complex problems that relate to planning and managing careers.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of this course, you would be able to: 
  1. describe fundamental theories and concepts in the field of career development.
  2. apply scientific knowledge to analyze problems of and design solutions for career development in the modern workplace.
  3. develop an in-depth understanding about yourself in terms of career goals and aspirations.
  4. communicate competently to an academic or professional audience via both written and oral presentations.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Week |  Date |  Topic |  Notes  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  2/19 | 
# Introduction to CD
|   
2 |  2/26 |  Theories and approaches in CD 1: Macro |   
3 |  3/5 |  Theories and approaches in CD 2: Micro, self-assessment |   
4 |  3/12 |  Career choices and decisions 1: career decisions |   
5 |  3/19 |  Career choices and decisions 2: passion and paycheck |  Case 1  
6 |  3/26 |  Career choices and decisions 3: early career choices |  Case 2  
7 |  4/2 |  No class (intercollegiate activities) |  Ind’l Assn 1 due  
8 |  4/9 |  Team project progress presentation |   
9 |  4/16 |  Theories and approaches in CD 3: Designing, implementing and evaluating CD programs |   
10 |  4/23 |  Issues in CD 1: interpersonal dynamics |   
11 |  4/30 |  Issues in CD 2: global careers |   
12 |  5/7 |  Issues in CD 3: strategies |  Ind’l Assn 2 due  
13 |  5/14 |  Issues in CD 4: work-family |   
14 |  5/21 |  Team project preparation |   
15 |  5/28 |  Team project presentation 1 |   
16 |  6/4 |  Team project presentation 2 |  Ind’l Assn 3 due  
17 |  6/11 |  Self-study week: No class |   
18 |  6/18 |  Self-study week: No class |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.