國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：商用進階英文寫作
#####  Course Name: Advanced Business Writing
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：300745021 Course No.300745021
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：商院選修 Course Department:Commerce/B/0 
  * 授課老師：楊健威 Instructor: YANG CHIEN-WEI 
  * 先修科目：[ 商用寫作與口語訓練（二）(單學期)(修習且及格) 或 寫作與口語訓練（二）(單學期)(修習且及格)] 及 [ 商用寫作與口語訓練（一）(單學期)(修習且及格) 或 寫作與口語訓練（一）(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([ or] AND [ or])
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
Course Description:
In the course's first module, we will explore public speaking skills. You will learn to enhance your oral delivery further, improve your language style, and effectively organize content to deliver a Ted-talk-style speech on a topic you specialize in. We will also discuss how to apply storytelling and rhetorical skills. As you enroll in this course, you are also automatically enrolled in the Visual Business Professional (VBP) , a micro-course offered by the University of South California (USC). We will devote some of our classes to guide you in your preparation for the VBP project and offer feedback on your progress. In the second module, students learn to write essential business letters to make and respond to inquiries, complaints, orders, delivery check, and payment collections. You will learn how to use the correct format and proper expressions in business communication. Since process analysis is frequently used in the workplace, we will discuss how to describe causal relations and build a sequential analysis to probe a process analysis case. Following that, we will introduce how to conduct research and complete a business report (BR) or a business plan (BP). You will be taught to use APA styles and follow the structure of a business report. You will also learn how to locate suitable, document, and analyze sources while building sound arguments. Moreover, you will learn the structure and the distinct language of a business plan. In the final project, you will work as a pair/group in presenting a BR/BP aiming to report on a market/industry, call for new policy or changed practice, attract investment, or promote a business concept.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Course Objectives:
The course is the continuation of Advanced Commercial Oral Training, in which we already covered job search writing. So one-third of this course focuses on oral communication, and the rest on written communication. In this course, students will learn to:
  1. Deliver a concise and well-supported speech to inform and inspire
  2. Master essential writing skills for business purposes
  3. Cooperate and collaborate internationally to complete a business communication project
  4. Acquire research and analytical writing skills
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
17+1週17+1 weeks | 第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Course Schedule : (Tentative version)
*For this semester, we adopt the 17+1-week system
Abbreviations used:
PV: Preview | Md: Moodle
*The VBP part can undergo further changes once its schedule is finalized by the USC.
Session |  Topic/Chapter |  Assignment/Project |  Time Investment Including class hours (in hours)  
---|---|---|---  
Module 1 &2 Public Speaking and VBP Project  
1 | 
  1. Course Introduction
  2. Team Warmer: Writing Sensitivity Check
|  Storytelling prep. Find the speech topic |  4  
2 | 
  1. Speech Skills (1)
  2. Ted-talk Samples
  3. VBP Discussion
  4. Writing Skills: Structuring Business Writing
| 
  1. Ted-talk sample analysis
  2. Writing Task 1: Process Analysis
|  4.5  
3 | 
  1. Speech Skills (2)
  2. Outlining for speech
  3. Writing Skills: Peer- Review
|  a. Speech outline prep. |  5  
4 | 
  1. Speech Skills (3)
  2. Drafting a speech
| 
  1. 50% of the Speech draft turn-in on Md.
|  4 or more  
5 |  a. VBP Project Mentoring b. My Ted-talk Speech Prep. |  a. VBP Project
  1. 100% of the Speech draft turn-in on Md.
|  5 or more  
6 |  a. VBP final report consultation |  a. VBP final report turn-in |  3.5  
7 |  My Ted-talk |  Peer-feedback in class |  3  
Module 3 Process Analysis & Business Letters  
8 | 
  1. Business Letter
Format: a Review
  1. Inquiries and responses
|  Letter Practice I & turn-in on Md. |  4  
9 | 
  1. Business letter language I
  2. Placing orders and confirmation
  3. Compliant letter and
responses |  Letter Practice II & Turn-in on Md. |  4.5  
10 |  a. Process Analysis & Essay Structure Review b. Describing causes and effects |  Pair Case writing: 2009 financial crisis |  4.5  
11 | 
  1. Business letter language II
  2. Peer-review
c. Collection and responses d. Press Release and Crisis Management |  a. Letter Practice III & Turn-in on Md. b. Process analysis draft turn-in on Md. |  4.5  
Module 4: Business Report (BR)/Business Proposal (BP)  
12 | 
  1. An Overview
  2. APA style guide
C. Topic choice and research question |  Market/industry research |  4.5  
13 |  a. Working thesis B. Annotated Bibliography b. Literature review d. Describing visual support |  a. Source documentation Practice b. The annotated bibliography |  5 or more  
14 | 
  1. Forming Argument & Outlining
  2. Elements of a BR
  3. Summarizing and Paraphrasing I
|  a. Introductory Paragraph & outline with citations |  4.5  
15 | 
  1. Developing an argument
  2. Summarizing and Paraphrasing II
  3. Functional Language
| 
  1. 50% of the BR/BP
  2. Design the poster
|  5 or more  
16 |  a. Conclusion and suggestions b. Writing Consultation | 
  1. 80% of the BR/BP
  2. The BR/BP Poster
|  5 or more  
17 |  BR/BP Poster Presentation |  a. In-class Peer-review b. 100% of the BR/BP |  3  
18 |  Self-directed Learning *Feel free to consult the instructor for recommended text |  *Self-paced Learning |  Pending  
####  其他： Others: Simulation practice 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.