國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：AI協作行銷
#####  Course Name: Artificial Intelligence for Marketing
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：300731001 Course No.300731001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：商院碩士 Course Department:Commerce/M/0 
  * 授課老師：白佩玉、陳冠儒 Instructor: PAI PEI-YU/CHEN KUAN-JU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12 
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course aims to explore how to integrate marketing concepts with generative AI tools and apply them to the design and execution of marketing strategies. The course will introduce the applications of generative AI and MarTech for marketing, including technologies for text, image, and video generation. Students will be equipped with in-depth knowledge of digital marketing and the practical core skills for designing marketing plans through hands-on experience using generative AI and MarTech. By exploring the applications of such technologies in marketing strategies, consumer insights, content creation, and brand building, students will gain an understanding of how AI and MarTech can optimize marketing decision-making and enhance creative outputs. Ultimately, students will be able to integrate data analysis and generative AI tools to effectively plan and execute marketing campaigns, while also developing abilities for self-learning, problem-solving, and cross-disciplinary collaboration.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  * Understand core marketing concepts and apply them to real-world situations.
  * Learn how to use generative AI and MarTech tools to support marketing campaign planning and content creation.
  * Develop data-driven thinking to analyze consumer behavior and identify trends.
  * Cultivate the ability to use AI and MarTech tools for collaborative problem-solving in marketing.
  * Enhance innovative thinking and gain new perspectives brought by AI technologies.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
E. Tentative Class Schedule
總課程時數：2400分鐘 (200分鐘 x 12 weeks)
Week |  Time |  Topic |  Note  
---|---|---|---  
1 2/18 |  9:10-10:50 11:00-12:40 | 
  * Introduction to the course and marketing
  * Project briefing
|  Case: 桂冠營養研究室、 桂冠冰果室  
2 2/25 | 
  * Digital marketing
  * Assignment 1: SWOT Analysis
|  次級資料、數據分析  
3 3/4 | 
  * 生成式AI - 文案生成
|  AMT顧問  
4 3/11 | 
  * Assignment 2: Consumer Needs and TA
  * Presentation of Assignment 1 & 2 
|  生成式AI實作Assignment 1 & 2 Due  
5 3/18 | 
  * Assignment 3: Brand Positioning
|  生成式AI實作  
6 3/25 | 
  * Assignment 4: New Product Development 
  * Presentation of Assignment 3 & 4
|  生成式AI實作Assignment 3 & 4 Due  
7 4/1 | 
  * 生成式AI - 圖像生成
|  AMT顧問  
8 4/8 | 
  * Assignment 5: Logo & DM
|  生成式AI實作  
9 4/15 | 
  * Presentation of Assignment 5
  * Assignment 6: Copywriting & Print Ad
|  生成式AI實作 Assignment 5 Due  
10 4/22 | 
  * Presentation of Assignment 6
  * Assignment 7: Mascot & Sales Promotion
|  生成式AI實作 Assignment 6 Due  
11 4/29 | 
  * Presentation of Assignment 7
  * Integration of previous assignments
|  生成式AI實作 Assignment 7 Due  
12 5/6 | 
  * Final Presentation
  * 分享AI使用心得與技巧
|  Final Project Due Course Feedbacks  
(註) 此課程配合校方16+2彈性教學方案，所規劃之課程進度安排。彈性教學課程設計僅調整週數，完整課程內容不受影響。
  * Students will be assigned to groups (5-7 people in a group, depending on the class size) to work on all the assignments. 
  * This class is designed to be _highly interactive_ ; every student is expected to join the class discussions for assignments , so students’ attendance and participation will be recorded _for every class_. When the students are absent more than 2 times, they’ll lose _10 points of the final grades for every additional absence_. 
  * To ensure the quality of group communication, “peer-evaluation ” for assignments will be conducted by each member at the end of the semester. The instructor has the right to adjust scores accordingly.
  * The course will use Moodle ( https://moodle.nccu.edu.tw/my/) as a communication tool between the instructor and students. Supplementary readings will be posted on the platform. Students are responsible for checking the platform regularly for any changes or updates to the course, and announcements.
No late submissions of assignments are acceptable.
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.