國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：跨文化創新創業專題研討
#####  Course Name: Cross-Cultural Entrepreneurship & Innovation
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：300729001 Course No.300729001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_1.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：商院學士 Course Department:Commerce/B/0 
  * 授課老師：張欣綠 Instructor: CHANG HSIN-LU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五E Session: fri18-19
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course introduces the concept of social innovation and entrepreneurship and is designed in such a way which develops student skills to innovate, develop and establish or begin to establish their own businesses. Because international mobility and collaboration are the keys to enhance the globalization of entrepreneurship, this course has established partnerships with Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT). Students from both schools will conduct joint learning and projects throughout the semester. NCCU students of this course should form teams with RIT students. Each team consist of 2-3 students (1 or 2 NCCU students and one RIT student). Students of each team should actively be engaged in class participation through interaction with NCCU and RIT instructors, team mates, and fellow classmates in and out of the class.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
At the end of this course, the students are expected to be able to
  1. Define the attributes of entrepreneurs, and the steps and phase of the entrepreneurial process.
  2. Define and understand the implications of sustainable development for consumers and producers.
  3. Understand the concept of social innovation and its different definitions.
  4. Differentiate between the various social entrepreneurship business models.
  5. Develop solutions for existing products and services, or develop new products and services rooted in the principles of social innovation.
  6. Conduct thorough market research and develop comprehensive medium term business plans.
  7. Develop a robust investor pitch and utilize crowdfunding platforms.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
18週18 weeks | 無彈性補充教學週No flexible supplemental instruction week  
To accommodate RIT students’ visiting schedule, this course is conducted through intensive instruction, compressing 12 hours of classes into a five-day schedule. NCCU students of this course are required to attend five-day class activities. 
Hour |  Date & Time |  Topic |  Class assignment  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  2/17 上午 10am-12pm |  Course Introduction | 
  1. Each student prepares self-intro for interview meeting #1
  2. Each student prepares a brief introduction to Taipei (location, weather, transportation, food, places to visit, etc.) 
  3. Each student prepares a list of at least 5 questions to ask about Rochester and interviewees
  4. Each team connects with the RIT interviewee(s) and set a time to meet between March 9th and 21st
2 |  3/8-3/20  By appointment 1-2 hour online interview |  Interview meeting #1 with RIT students: NCCU-RIT Introduction | 
  1. Each team submits screenshots of the interview meeting #1
  2. Each team submits a brief write-up that summarizes interview meeting #1
  3. Each team prepares for the interview meeting #2 
    1. Introducing business culture in Taiwan
    2. Introducing one Taiwanese circular entrepreneurship
    3. Prepare a list of at least 5 questions to ask about business culture in USA and circular entrepreneurship in Rochester
    4. Connect with the RIT interviewee(s) and set a time to meet between March 23rd and April 8th
3  
4 |  3/22-4/3 By appointment 1-2 hour online interview |  Interview meeting #2 with RIT students: Circular Entrepreneurship | 
  1. Each team submits screenshots of the interview meeting #1
  2. Each team submits a brief write-up that summarizes interview meeting #1
  3. Each team proposes a business plan for a circular business model to address potential market opportunity in Rochester
5  
6 |  5/19 9am-12pm |  Welcome Event:  Greetings, introductions, team discussions for the project, a welcome lunch  |   
7  
8  
9 | 5/20-5/22 TBD |  One-day company visit, covering two companies outside of Taipei city (lunch excluded, but a restaurant recommendation will be provided) | 
  1. Each student submit a brief write-up that summarizes company visit experience
10  
11  
12  
13  
14  
15  
16 | 5/23 9am-12pm |  NCCU-RIT Project Presentation | 
  1. Each team submits the final presentation slides 
17  
18  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.