國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：商用寫作與口語訓練（二）
#####  Course Name: Business Writing and Oral Training II
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：300749041 Course No.300749041
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：商院選修 Course Department:Commerce/B/0 
  * 授課老師：楊健威 Instructor: YANG CHIEN-WEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
Course Description:
The course is a continuation of Oral Training and Writing I. This course offers you opportunities to practice and improve oral and written communication in English. The course is designed to help you become more comfortable with speaking English in public and expressing your ideas in writing, so you can be more confident when communicating in English. 
We will focus upon 6 to 8 topics and issues this semester. You will practice language functions in various occasions such as making appointments, making complaints, giving advice, and introducing one’s native culture. Communication activities including role-playing, group discussion, simulation practice will be frequent in class, allowing you to improve oral fluency. In the oral and writing tasks the course provided you are required to employ the skills and knowledge learned in completing the tasks. To help cultivate your global perspective, you will research on a chosen international issue or event and present your viewpoint and lead a group discussion. Also, you will present on a person with global influence. For the final project, you will work as a team, spending weeks to produce a promotion video about Taiwan. 
The minor focus of the course is basic academic writing. We will continue the discussion of sentence structure and other kinds of paragraphs. You will learn how to write to describe and compare and build paragraphs into a mini-essay.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Course Objectives:
The course targets at students of high-intermediate level with an aim to assist them to further enhance oral fluency and eloquence and to enhance precision and effectiveness in written communication. Students are expected to demonstrate the following once finishing the course:
＊ to cultivate the awareness of global citizenship
＊ to use clear and well-organized content while speaking and writing
＊ to enhance understanding of the English culture 
＊ to produce organized paragraph and mini-essay
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
17+1週17+1 weeks | 第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Course Schedule: (Tentative version)
*For this semester, we adopt the 17+1-week system
Abbreviations: Pv.: preview; Assg.: assignment; T: task; R.: research
Session |  Topics and Skills |  Assignment/Progress of the Project |  Time Investment (hours) Including class time  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Orientation & Warmer  | 
  1. Photo story preparation 
  2. R.: MOOCs
|  4  
2 |  1. Education Revolution in the 21st Century 2. Writing Skills I: Sentence Types i |  1. Photo story preparation  2. R.: On-line course offering |  4 or more  
3 |  T. 1: Photo Presentation : My Secret Corner 2. Writing Skills II: Descriptive Mini-essay  |  1. Assg. 1: Descriptive  Passage
  1. Pv. Pre-class reading 1
|  4  
4 | 
  1. Panel on Global Issues I: Will AI Take My Jobs?
  2. Pronunciation Drills I
*Start of the Global Watch News Brief | 
  1. R.: Who Run the World?
  2. Team Building
|  4  
5 |  1. Cultural Literacy 2. Cultural Quotient Quiz 3. Team building 4. Writing Skills I: Sentence Types ii | 
  1. Assg. 2: Questionnaire for the cultural literacy survey
  2. R. for the individual oral presentation
|  5  
6 | 
  1. Money Talk
  2. Mini-debate: To Exchange Or Not to; that is the question
| 
  1. Conduct the survey and prepare for T. 2
  2. Decide on the topic of the individual oral presentation
|  4 or more  
7 |  T. 2: Cultural Literacy Survey Group Presentation |  R.: British English |  3.5  
8 |  Cultural Literacy I British V. American English I  |  Preparation for the oral presentation |  4  
9 |  British Culture through Media: Film screening and discussion: A taste of the British accent |  Assg. 3: slide file submission (10%) |  4 or more  
10 |  T. 3: Oral Presentation: 2023-4 100 Most Influential |  Note-taking and peer-feedback 1 |  4 or more  
11 |  T. 3: Oral Presentation: 2023-4 Time 100 2020/21 |  1. Note-taking and peer-feedback 2 |  4 or more  
12 |  1. Cultural Literacy II: *Participating in an International Meeting: A Culture Case 2. Conversation Act-out: British English |  1. Preparation for the conversation act-out 2. Prepare for the group report |  4.5-5  
13 |  Cultural Literacy III:  1. American culture I: group report & Knowledge Quiz | 
  1. Prepare for the group report
|  5  
14 | 
  1. Rapping in English: Mystery Solved
  2. Rap pair/group building
  3. Final Project Announcement:
My Taiwan Craze: A Promotion Project | 
  1. Assg. 4: Composing and rehearsing a Rap song
  2. Brainstorm a FP proposal
|  5 or more  
15 |  T. 4 Rap Battle
  1. *Start of the Final Project:
  2. Final project: Proposal Discussion
| 
  1. Start the fb fanpage for the FP
  2. Booklet design
  3. Video shooting
|  5 or more  
16 |  FP Work Week | 
  1. Assg. 5: Booklet draft submission
  2. Video Production
|  5 or more  
17 |  Taiwan Craze Gala: Promotion Video Showcase |  * Full participation is strictly required. Each team member must share the presentation. |  4  
18 |  Self-directed Learning *Feel free to consult the instructor about your learning project |  Self-paced Learning |  Pending  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.