國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：營運與供應鏈管理
#####  Course Name: Operations and Supply Chain Management
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：300779001 Course No.300779001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：商院學士 Course Department:Commerce/B/0 
  * 授課老師：洪叔民 Instructor: HORNG SHWU-MIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五567 Session: fri14-17 
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is an introduction to the concepts, principles, problems, and practices of operations management. Emphasis is on managerial processes for effective operations in both goods-producing and service-rendering organization. Topics include operations strategy, capacity planning, process design, waiting line analysis, quality control, forecasting, sales and operations planning, and inventory control.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Develop an understanding of and an appreciation for the production and operations management
function in any organization.
  * To understand the importance of productivity and competitiveness of an organization.
  * To understand the importance of an effective production and operations strategy to an organization.
  * To understand the various production and operations design decisions and how they relate to the overall strategies of organizations.
  * To understand the importance of product and service design decisions and their impact on other design decisions and operations.
  * Obtain an understanding of quality management practice in organizations and how total quality management and six-sigma facilitate organizational effectiveness.
  * To understand the relationship of the various planning practices of capacity planning, aggregate planning, project planning and scheduling.
  * To understand the roles of inventories and basics of managing inventories in various demand settings. 
  * To understand waiting line analysis as a tool for service capacity management.
  * To understand contemporary operations and manufacturing organizational approaches and the supply-chain management activities and the renewed importance of this aspect of organizational strategy.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 8 週 Week 8 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 15 週 Week 15 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1  |  Chapter 1  |  Introduction |  |  3 |  3  
2 |  Chapter 2 & 4  |  Strategy; Project Management |  |  3 |  3  
3 |  Chapter 3 & 5 |  Design of Product and Service; Strategic Capacity Management |  Product Design (Ch4) |  3 |  3  
4 |  Chapter 6 & 7 |  Learning Curve; Manufacturing Processes |  Cases: Shoudice Hospital (Ch 5) |  3 |  3  
5 |  Chapter 10 & 11 |  Waiting Lines; Process Design and Analysis |  Case: Circuit Board Fabricators (Ch 7) |  3 |  3  
6 |  Chapter 8 & 9 |  Facility Layout; Service Processes |  Case: Processing Customer Orders (Ch 10) |  3 |  3  
7 |  |  No class |  |  |   
8 |  Chapter 12 & 13 |  Six-Sigma Quality; SQC |  Runners Edge (Ch 11) |  3 |  3  
9 |  Chapter 14 & 15 |  Lean Supply Chain; LDT |  Cases: Hot Shot Plastics Company and Quality Management-Toyota (Ch 13) |  3 |  3  
10 |  |  Mid-term Exam |  |  3 |  6  
11 |  Chapter 16; 17 |  Global Sourcing; The IoT and ERP |  Case: Distribution Center Location (Ch 15) |  3 |  3  
12 |  Chapter 18  |  Forecasting |  Case: Global Sourcing Decision – Grainger (Ch 16) |  3 |  3  
13 |  Chapter 19 |  Sales & Operations Planning |  Case: Starbucks Corporation (Ch 18) |  3 |  3  
14 |  Chapter 20 |  Inventory Management |  Case: Developing an Aggregate Plan-Bradford (Ch 19) |  3 |  3  
15 |  No class |  |  |  |   
16 |  Chapter 21 |  MRP |  Case: Inventory Management at Big10Sweaters (Ch 20) |  3 |  3  
17 |  |  Final Exam |  |  3 |  6  
18 |  |  Field Trip (TBD) |  |  |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.