國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：總體經濟學
#####  Course Name: Macroeconomics
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：300906001 Course No.300906001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：商院學士 Course Department:Commerce/B/0 
  * 授課老師：朴民佑 Instructor: PARK MINWOO 
  * 先修科目：[ 經濟學(全學年)(有修即可)]Prerequisite([])
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed for undergraduate students who have already completed the one-year Principles of Economics course. It delves into the two fundamental pillars of Macroeconomics theories: Growth and Business Cycle, offering insights into the long-run and short-run dynamics of economies.
In the Growth theory segment, students will learn the Solow and endogenous growth model to understand the factors that contribute to a nation's long-run economic growth. For the Business Cycle theory segment, we will examine two widely employed tools in macroeconomic analyses: the Real Business Cycle and New Keynesian models. We will construct these frameworks by carefully understanding the behaviors of consumers, firms, and governments. Then, we will explore how the economy reaches its equilibrium.
Building upon this foundation, we will study various macroeconomic topics, including Credit Market Frictions, Financial Crises, Social Security Systems, Investments, Money and Banking, Inflation, and Monetary Policies including Quantitative Easing and Forward Guidance.
_Lectures will be given in English only._
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The students will possess a strong tool which is widely used in economic analyses. It will be helpful whether they end up working in public or private sectors. Moreover, students will be able to sharpen their critical thinking skills by learning economic models explaining real world data. This course will also prepare students who plan to go to a graduate school by exposing them to advanced materials.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1  
Feb 21 |  Introduction  |  Macroeconomics Variables (Ch. 1-3) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
2  
Feb 28 |  National Holiday  
3  
Mar 7 |  Growth Theory |  Solow Model 1 (Ch. 7) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
4  
Mar 14 |  Solow Model 2 (Ch. 7) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
5  
Mar 21 |  Endogenous Growth (Ch. 8) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
6  
Mar 28 |  Midterm Exam 1  
7  
Apr 4 |  National Holiday  
8  
Apr 11 |  One Period Model |  Consumer and Firm Behavior in One Period (Ch. 4 & Ch.5) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
9  
Apr 18 |  Multi Period Model |  The Consumption -Savings Decision and Credit Markets (Ch. 9) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
10  
Apr 25 |  Credit Frictions, Financial Crises, and Social Security (Ch. 10) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
11  
May 2 |  Real Business Cycle Model |  A Real Intertemporal Model with Investment (Ch. 11) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
12  
May 9 |  Midterm Exam 2  
13  
May 16 |  Money and Business Cycles |  Money, Banking, Prices, and Monetary Policy (Ch. 12) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
14  
May 23 |  Business Cycle Models with Flexible Prices and Wages (Ch. 13) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
15  
May 30 |  National Holiday  
16  
Jun 6 |  New Keynesian Economics |  New Keynesian Economics: Sticky Prices (Ch. 14) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
17  
Jun 13 |  Inflation: Phillips Curve and Neo-Fisherism (Ch. 15) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
18  
Jun 20 |  Final Exam  
Class Attendance : Attendance is checked regularly. An unexcused absence will make one minus point in the participation section of the grading. Being late will make a half minus point.
Policy on missed exam : The dates of the midterm and final exams are fixed. Students who experience a serious medical condition that requires immediate attention from a physician, or an emergency that prevents them from taking the exam may be excused. However, students must contact the instructor _before_ the exam and must _verify_ their condition by official documents. No exceptions will be made for job interviews, holiday travel, or other non-academic activities. When a student is properly excused from an exam, no make-up exam will be offered. Instead, his or her course grade will be adjusted based on other exams and homework.
Policy on Regrading: If, after reviewing the exam answers, a student feels that there is a grading mistake on his or her exam, that student can submit a re-grade request. The student must submit a written discussion _within one week_ from the time at which the exams are handed back. When regrade request is accepted, the entire exam will be regraded, which could lower the score as well.
Academic Dishonesty: Cheating hurts our community by undermining academic integrity, creating mistrust, and fostering unfair competition. The university will punish cheaters with failure on an assignment, failure in a course, permanent transcript notation, and/or expulsion. Violations can include cheating on exams, plagiarism, reuse of assignments without permission, improper use of the Internet and electronic devices, unauthorized collaboration, alteration of graded assignments, forgery, falsification and lying. 
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.