國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：電腦模擬的商業應用 
#####  Course Name: Simulation Modeling with Business Applications
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：301848001 Course No.301848001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國貿三甲、國貿三乙、國貿四甲、國貿四乙 Course Department:International Business/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：傅冶天 Instructor: FU YEE-TIEN 
  * 先修科目：[ 統計學(單學期)(修習且及格) 或 統計學（一）(單學期)(修習且及格) 或 統計學（二）(單學期)(修習且及格) 或 經濟學(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([ or or or])
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
The goal for this course is to develop the skills needed to use and create intricate simulation models with Excel and Academic Analytic Solver or Crystal Ball (or equivalents), geared toward the business community. The course will be project based, with a focus on mortgage-backed securities, securities modeling, financial statement cash flow modeling, and derivative modeling.
Course description (Ref: Syllabus of Prof. John C. Banko, University of Florida)  
A famous Chinese proverb reads “I hear, I forget. I see, I remember. I do, I learn”. The structure of the course “Simulation Modelling with Business Applications” tries to capture the wisdom of this proverb. A typical session consists of three steps. First, the instructor lectures about academic concepts from the fields of Management Science and Finance (I hear). Second, the instructor applies these concepts to a particular business situation (I see). Third, the students themselves apply the optimization and simulation concepts to a real-world business case with the help of the instructor (I do). Students who have taken this course emphasize as a strength that the course structure (lecture + example + workshop) facilitates the learning of otherwise complex quantitative models.  
The software used in the course is Microsoft Excel, with the add-ins Solver for optimization and Academic Solver or @Risk for simulation, which can be downloaded from the portal. We will discuss spreadsheet modelling best practices, and review useful spreadsheet features such as data tables, database operations, pivot tables and charts, the data analysis tool pack, and other statistical built-in functions. In addition, the use of macros to automate spreadsheet tasks will be illustrated. The table below provides a summary of the financial contexts, modelling frameworks, and spreadsheet features covered.
Pre-requisite for Simulation Modeling with Business Applications 電腦模擬的商業應用（大學部）: One-Semester (3-unit) undergraduate-level Economics or One-Semester (3-unit) undergraduate-level Statistics OR Consent from the Instructor.
電腦模擬的商業應用（大學部）預修科目：三學分之（大學部）經濟學 or 三學分之（大學部）統計學或者是經由老師同意選修。
Maximum Enrollment Limit: 40
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 專業知識之理論基礎 (Theoretical foundations of professional knowledge)
  * B. 理解與辦別道德、社會責任與永續議題To understand and identify ethical, socially responsible, and sustainability issues
  * C. 溝通能力Communication skills
  * D. 問題解決能力Problem-solving skills
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力Teamwork and leadership skills
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
In today’s information age, managers increasingly rely on quantitative models and big data to make financial decisions that have a profound impact on the performance of their organizations. Often business analysts produce the quantitative models that top management use to support their decision making, but top management must also understand the strengths and weaknesses of the models if they are to use them effectively to support their decisions. The objective of this course is to equip you with the frameworks, tools, and methodologies necessary to build and/or be an educated user of quantitative models for financial decision making. The course is suitable for students seeking a career in finance, but also for students with broader interests who wish to strengthen their general modelling skills.
We will help you master modelling frameworks such as regression analysis, Monte-Carlo simulation, optimization, and binomial trees; and, we will show you how to apply these frameworks in financial contexts such as portfolio management, term-structure estimation, capital budgeting, risk measurement, risk analysis in discounted cash flow models, and pricing of European, American, exotic, and real options. The modelling tools will be illustrated by applying them to a variety of real-world cases. For instance, we will use real options to carry out the valuation of a 10-year lease on a gold mine (taking into account the uncertainty in gold prices and the flexibility to choose when and how much gold to extract); we will show you how to use Monte-Carlo simulation to understand the impact of the different assumptions underlying the discounted cash-flow analysis for a new venture in the airline industry; and, we will show you how to value abandonment, expansion, contraction, and pioneer options on real-world assets.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
Please see the attached course syllabus. Thanks!
Student workload expectation (學習投入時間): 3-4.5 hours of self-study per weekly class meeting of 3 hours. That is: Outside-of-class Hours (課程前後) is 3-4.5 per Weekly Class Hours (課堂講授) of 3.
####  其他： Others: Excel-Based Simulation Model-Building for Business 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.