國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：菁英商務英語：簡報與演說技巧
#####  Course Name: Elite Business English: Presentation and Speech Skills
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：301867001 Course No.301867001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國貿二甲、國貿二乙 Course Department:International Business/B/2 
  * 授課老師：古如君 Instructor: KU JU-CHUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二78 Session: tue16-18
##  課程簡介Course Description
If there is one skill, above all others, that will help you stand out in the world of international business, it is the skill of presenting. Undoubtedly, giving presentations in English is now common features of working life. 
Thus, this course is designated to help learners develop their international business skills of presentations in English in a more effective, confident, and professional manner.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 專業知識之理論基礎 (Theoretical foundations of professional knowledge)
  * B. 理解與辦別道德、社會責任與永續議題To understand and identify ethical, socially responsible, and sustainability issues
  * C. 溝通能力Communication skills
  * D. 問題解決能力Problem-solving skills
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力Teamwork and leadership skills
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
An excellent presenter comes down to 4P: preparation, passion, practice and performance. This course will help you both prepare and perform. By the end of the course, you’ll know how to start and how to finish, what to put in and what to leave out. You’ll have an eye for visuals and an ear for how to use your voice. You’ll have a feel for effective body language and the ability to make facts and figures unforgettable. You’ll learn strategies for handling any questions your audience might throw at you. And you’ll try out a range of dynamic presentation techniques as you develop a style that is uniquely yours.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
每週課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements  
---  
|  週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 |  Class Introduction |  |  |  2 |  0  
2 |  Opening and closing |  Unit 1A |  Give an introduction about yourself |  2 |  1  
3 |  Opening and closing |  Unit 1B Closing  Create a loop |  p. 78 Practicing linking the opening and closing to create a loop.  |  2 |  1  
4 |  Smooth structure |  Unit 2A&B |  Pairup to practice signpost language on p.79 |  2 |  1  
5 |  Voice power |  Unit 3A |  p.15, part 7-8 |  2 |  1  
6 |  Voice power |  Unit 3B |  Practice delivering a speech adding pause, stress, louder, and quieter voice volumne  Practice varying voice to increase voice power p.82 |  2 |  1  
7 | Visual Aids |  Unit 4A & 4B |  666 Rule and 10-20-30 The five golden rules in Presentations |  2 |  1  
8 | Facts and figures |  Unit 5A & 5B |  |  What slideument might be?  Round figures using approximation words   
---  
2 |  1   
9 |  Midterm Oral Exam |  Midterm Oral Exam |  Midterm Oral Exam |  2 |  2  
10 |  Impact techniques |  Unit 8A  Using repetition of sounds. words and phrases to add a dramatic Impact on speech |  rewrite the short presentation extract on p. 88 adding impact technique to it.  |  2 |  1  
11 |  Impact techniques |  Unit 8B rhetorical techniques, groups of three, and a punch line Video: Barack Obama's “Yes we can!” |  rewrite a marketing strategy extract on p.89 imposing impact techques to it.  |  2 |  1  
12 |  Impact techniques |  Unit 8C Simple contrast and opposites Chiasmus Techniques |  Practice adding words of imagery and power to your speech p. 89 |  2 |  1  
13 |  Impact techniques |  Unit 8D a combination of rhetorical techniques  Anaphora Technique |  Practice with a partner using a combination of rhetorical techniques on three movie extracts on p.40 |  2 |  1  
14 |  Body Language /Storytelling / Optional, subject to circusmstance  |  Unit 9 A |  p.42-43 |  2 |  1  
15 |  Body Language / Storytelling Optional, subject to circusmstance  |  Unit 9 B |  |  p.44-45 add attitude words and use metaphor. Use voice to emotionally correspond to the meaning of the messages.   
---  
|   
16 |  Final Oral Presentation |  Individual student oral report   
17 |  Automonous on-line learning   
18 |  Automonous on-line learning   
####  其他： Others: in-class individual task presentation 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.