國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：商務英文寫作
#####  Course Name: Business Writing in English
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：301843001 Course No.301843001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國貿二甲、國貿二乙 Course Department:International Business/B/2 
  * 授課老師：古如君 Instructor: KU JU-CHUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三56 Session: wed14-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
Through illustration of 15 international business topics, students are to be taught step-by-step how to write clear,concise and effective business correspondences,including emails,memos,faxes,letters,reports and so on. This course will also teach students in understanding key elements of written communication, i.e. language, medium, format, sturcture, perspective and appropriateness. Furthermore, an adaquate portion of class time will be dedicated to lecturing grammar,punctuation,and styles for business writing. In addition, the course requires students to practice some assigned writing tasks both in the class and at home. From time to time,through group/pair work, students will learn to review and critique writing works among one another. Upon completion of the course, students are expected to make their written messages more structural,logical,effective and with grammatical correct as well as business appropriateness.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 專業知識之理論基礎 (Theoretical foundations of professional knowledge)
  * B. 理解與辦別道德、社會責任與永續議題To understand and identify ethical, socially responsible, and sustainability issues
  * C. 溝通能力Communication skills
  * D. 問題解決能力Problem-solving skills
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力Teamwork and leadership skills
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The course aims to help students improve their written communication skills on a variety of international business topics. Upon completion of the course, students are expected not only to make progress on the usage and the grammar of English but also to smoothen their business writing skills; and ultimately to become a more structural, logical, effective business professional.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
Weekly Course Schedule  
W1 Course Orientation  
W2 What kind of email/letter makes a good impression on you? 
Five elements of an effective business writing.
Introduction of Formal and Informal Writing Style from Salutation to 
Complimentary Closing
W3 Introduction of 4 Sentence Structures and punctuation usage 
Unit 1 Introduce New Business Partners
Writing task 1: A letter to welcome a new business partner
W4 Unit 2 Asking for a raise 
W5 Unit 2 Asking for a raise
Unit 3 Job Assignment  
W6 Unit 3 Job Assignment
Unit 4 Recommendation   
W7 Unit 4 Recommendation (writing task 2) 
Unit 7 Business Exhibition   
W8 Unit 7 Business Exhibition   
W9 Midterm Exam  
W10 Unit 9 Product Development  
W11 Unit 9 Product Development (writing task 3)  
W12 Unit 11 Business Travel  
W13 Unit 11 Business Travel
Unit 14 Progress Report   
W14 Unit 14 Progress Report   
W15 Unit 14 Progress Report 
Unit 15 Business Invitation  
W16 Final Exam   
W17 Autonomous online learning  
W18 Autonomous online learning
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.