國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：財務報表分析 
#####  Course Name: Financial Statement Analysis
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：303019011 Course No.303019011
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：會計四乙 Course Department:Accounting/B/4 
  * 授課老師：林宛瑩 Instructor: LIN WAN-YING 
  * 先修科目：[ 初級會計學（一）(單學期)(修習且及格)] 及 [ 初級會計學（二）(單學期)(修習且及格)] 及 [ 中級會計學（一）(單學期)(修習且及格)] 及 [ 中級會計學（二）(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([] AND [] AND [] AND [])
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course provides an opportunity to understand the fundamentals of business analysis with foci on issues of financial reporting, accounting, financial analysis and valuation. The course will utilize a framework for financial statement analysis consisting of four key components, (1) business strategy analysis, (2) accounting analysis, (3) financial (ratio and cash flow) analysis and (4) prospective (forecasting and valuation) analysis.  The most effective means for developing the analytical, interpretative and assessment skills is working closely and hard with numbers on your team. This takes time and effort. This is a course where you will get out of it what you put into it.  
---  
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 奠定會計專業知識與能力 (Students will gain professional accounting knowledge in their field. )
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題的能力 (Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 培養口語與寫作表達等溝通能力 (Students are able to express oneself through speaking and writing.)
  * D. 培養問題解決能力 (Students will acquire practical professional skills - problem solving.)
  * E. 培養團隊合作與領導能力 (Students will acquire cooperation and leadership skills.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the class you will:
• Learn a framework for analyzing a business. 
• understand the issues concerning assets and liability distortions and how to entangle these issues. 
• Be proficient at calculating and interpreting financial ratios. 
• Understand how to use ratios to compare a firm to its competitors and to evaluate changes in ratios over time. You will also know how to use these ratios to help forecast the future. 
• Understand how accounting errors (either intentional manipulation by management or unintentional mistakes) impact reported income and the book value of equity. 
• Understand major valuation models: such as discounted cash flow models, residual income models, and models based on market multiples (e.g. the price-earnings ratio and the market-to-book ratio). 
• Be able to evaluate the performance of publicly listed companies in TWSE.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
18週18 weeks | 無彈性補充教學週No flexible supplemental instruction week  
Week |  Date |  Topic |  Content |  Teaching Activities |  Input Hours  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
In-class |  Outside of class  
1 |  2/18 |  Framework & Business Analysis |  Class schedule & Introduction to FSA |  Chapter readings & Team Project #1 Industry and strategy analysis (Excel or other tools)  |  3 |  −  
2 |  2/25 |  01 A Framework for business analysis & valuation using financial statements |  3 |  2  
3 |  3/4 |  02 Strategy Analysis |  3 |  3  
4 |  3/11 |  Accounting Analysis |  03 Accounting Analysis: The basics |  Chapter readings & Team Project #2 Accounting and financial analysis ( Excel or other tools)  TEJ hands-on & developing window dressing indicators |  3 |  3  
5 |  3/18 | 03 Accounting Analysis: The basics |  − |  −  
6 |  3/25 |  04 Accounting Analysis: Assets and liabilities distortions |  3 |  3  
7 |  4/1 |  04 Accounting Analysis: 8Accounting adjustments |  3 |  3  
8 |  4/8 |  Tool for massive financial data analysis  |  Using Stata |  3 |  −  
9 |  4/15 |  Financial Analysis & Tools to Analytics |  05 Financial Analysis: The alternative approach of decomposing ROE |  Chapter readings & Team Project #2 (continued) |  3 |  3  
10 |  4/22 |  05 Financial Analysis: evaluating performance of operating, investment, financing activities |  3 |  2  
11 |  4/29 |  Tool for massive financial data analysis  |  Using Stata |  3 |  −  
12 |  5/6 |  05 Financial Analysis: Ratio & cash flow analyses |  Chapter readings & Team Project #2 (continued) |  3 |  3  
13 |  5/13 |  Prospective Analysis |  06 Prospective Analysis: Forecasting 07 Prospective Analysis: Valuation theory & Concepts |  Chapter readings |  3 |  2  
14 |  5/20 |  校慶停課 |  Chapter readings |  3 |  3  
15 |  5/27 |  08 Prospective Analysis: Valuation Implementation |  Chapter readings  |  3 |  2  
16 |  6/3 |  Assurance of Learning |  Term project #2  |  Presentation |  3 |  3  
17 |  6/10 |  Discussion & wrap-up |  Discussion |  3 |  3  
18 |  6/17 |  Final |  Examination |  4 |  6  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.