國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：資料庫管理 
#####  Course Name: Database Management Systems
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：306008011 Course No.306008011
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：資管二甲、資管二乙 Course Department:Management Information Systems/B/2 
  * 授課老師：周致遠 Instructor: CHOU CHIH-YUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
The course of Database Management Systems provides an introduction to the management of database management systems (DBMS). Students will learn multiple principles, tools, and practices of database management and database design. Specifically, the following materials will be covered during the semester: (1) The fundamentals of relational database systems including data models, database architectures, and database manipulations, (2) The database conceptual design, (3) The management issues on database systems, (4) The applications of database management systems, and (5) The new developments and trends of database management. Both technical and practical knowledge will be emphasized. 
* 本學期第一週(2月18日)就有正課(會上滿3小時)與助教課，且助教課會在正課之前，請大家準時到課。助教課為週二上午10點在商學院五樓電腦教室260509。
* To facilitate our course scedule to fit the current 16+2 and the future 16+0 school policy,_we will have a_ _full THREE-HOUR lecture & TA session_ _in the first week (Feb 18, 2025)_. Manual course adding will be decided during the first or second hour after we finish the course introduction part.
* To balance the number of students in our both classes to achieve better teaching quality,_the number of manual course-adding students for this class may be limited_depending on the number of enrolled students we have on both classes. The actual policy will be announced before the semester starts.
* Asynchronous course videos for our classes both in English and in Mandarin Chinese will be provided to all our enrolled students for course review in both classes. We encourage students to choose English class on Mondays due to the limited space especially if student(s) need course manual course-adding. Manual course-adding policy will be announced after we know the results from course selection during the winter break.
* We extremely welcome exchange students to join us on our Monday's class (Course No. 306008001)! Proactive cooperation with our local students will earn additional bonus points.
* (Updated on Feb 14, 2025)
Manual course-adding policy for Spring 2025 DBMS classes can be found as follows. ALL the students who need manual course-adding should attend our first class to express their intentions.
_Target numbers of students (subject to change):_
  * Monday’s class: about 15 - 20 (Our expected enrollment total is 65-70.)
  * Tuesday’s class: about 10 - 15 (Our expected enrollment total is 65-70.)
_Ordered List for Manual Course-adding Priority:_
  1. Protected list (extremely limited)
  2. Exchange students (if available)
  3. Students from University System of Taiwan (NCU, NTHU, & NYCU) (if available)
  4. NCCU MIS sophomore students
  5. NCCU MIS other students (including those with admission from our MS program)
  6. NCCU College of Commerce ETP students (for Monday's class only)
  7. NCCU FinTech Program students
  8. NCCU College of Commerce Big Data Analysis Program students
  9. NCCU Department of Accounting Big Data Program students
  10. NCCU College of Commerce students
  11. Other NCCU students
  12. Students from other universities (if available)
The above policy is subject to change.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 資訊科技專業與商學經營創新知能(Profession of information technology and knowledge of business innovation)
  * B. 社會責任與倫理(Social responsibility and ethics)
  * C. 溝通協調與國際化能力(Communication, coordination abilities and international capabilities)
  * D. 資訊系統管理與整合知能(Ability to manage and integrate information system)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Teamwork and leadership abilities)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The major objectives of this course revolve around helping the student:
  * Understanding and interpreting the main terminology of database management & design.
  * Analyze the business needs and provide easier, technology-based solutions where appropriate.
  * Be familiar with basic conceptual database design and system development processes.
  * Understand how database management systems can be put to effective use in the real context.
  * Be able to retrieve data using SQL
  * Study the various types of logical data models in use today and likely to emerge in the coming years.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation |  助教討論課 TA Sessions (Tuesdays 10 am-12 pm)  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 |  Database Management Basics |  DBMS Introduction, System Development Process, SCRUM, & Agile Practices (Feb 18) | 
  1. Lectures & Discussions
  2. Additional Discussion Sessions May Be Requested
  3. Pop Quizzes Available
  4. Bonus Homework Assignments Available
|  3.0 |  6.0 |  Final Project & TA Class Introduction + Git Intro  
2 |  Entity-Relational (ER) Modeling (Feb 25) |  3.0 |  6.0 |  Back-End (1): JavaScript Intro + Web App Architecture + ExpressJS Intro + Project Setup & Connect to DB  
3 |  Relational Model & ER to Relations (Mar 04) |  3.0 |  6.0 |  Back-End (2): RESTful API design + SQL Basics + CRUD APIs + Auth  
4 |  Functional Dependency & Normalization (Mar 11)  |  3.0 |  6.0 |  Discussion (I)  
5 |  SQL (I) (Mar 18) |  3.0 |  6.0 |  Front-End (1): Bootstrap  
6 |  SQL (II) & DBMS Programming (Mar 25) |  3.0 |  6.0 |  Frontend (2): AJAX & Axios  
7 |  Exam |  Midterm Exam (Mar 31, 6-9 pm) |  Exam |  3.0 |  6.0 |  No Session  
8 |  Database Transaction Processing |  Transaction Management & Failure Recovery (I) (Apr 08) | 
  1. Lectures & Discussions
  2. Additional Discussion Sessions May Be Requested
  3. Pop Quizzes Available
  4. Bonus Homework Assignments Available
|  3.0 |  6.0 |  Discussion (II)  
9 |  DBMS Storage & Failure Recovery (II) (Apr 15) |  3.0 |  6.0 |  SQL: Basic Recap, Query Performance, Implementation Explanation, Indexing, & some more functions  
10 |  Scheduling & Concurrency Control (I) (Apr 22)  |  3.0 |  6.0 |  Flexible course (Content  _TBD_)  
11 |  Concurrency Control (II) (Apr 29)  |  3.0 |  6.0 |  Final Project Q &A  
12 |  Advanced Topics |  Database Trending Topics (May 06) |  3.0 |  6.0 |  Discussion (III) (Flexible)  
13 |  Exam |  Final Exam (May 12, 6-9 pm) |  Exam |  3.0 |  6.0 |  No Session  
14 |  No Class |  **School Anniversary Break Week  
(No Class on May 20) |  Demo Preparation |  0.0 |  6.0 |  No Session**  
15 |  Demo |  Main Functions Demo (May 26 or 27) |  Demo group-by-group |  3.0 |  6.0 |  Demo (May 26/27)  
16-18 |  Presentation & Peer Review |  Video Presentation (Submit online, due onMay 27) (Online peer review due onJun 10) |  Student Presentation, Discussion, & Between-Group Peer Review |  3.0 |  18.0 |  No Session  
Notes | 
  * The course schedule is subject to change. Lectures about indexing and/or query optimization may be added during the semester, depending on the course schedule availability.
  * The lecture about database trending topics may include data-related careers introduction, NOSQL, data warehouse, and/or database security issues, depending on the course schedule availability.
  * ALL the students are  _required_ to attend the TA class.
  * Schedule for TA Sessions will be adjusted if needed.
  * The course is designed for sophomore students in the Department of Management Information Systems. Final grades with detailed comments may be available to all our students by the Mid-July (or earlier). Please be aware of the schedule and be patient for the results. Graduate students, senior students, or exchange students will NOT receive early results due to the fair grading process.
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.