國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際金融
#####  Course Name: International Finance
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：351031011 Course No.351031011
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國貿碩一、國貿碩二 Course Department:International Business/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：朴民佑 Instructor: PARK MINWOO 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This is a graduate course for the master students. We will first develop the basic theoretical framework that is used in international macroeconomics. Then various international macroeconomic topics will be analyzed using the model in various settings. The topics include global imbalances, the determinants of the current account in small and large economies, processes of adjustment to shocks, the determinants of the real exchange rate, the role of fixed and flexible exchange rates in models with nominal rigidities, and interactions between monetary and fiscal policy.  
_Lectures will be given in English._
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 專業知識之理論基礎Theoretical foundations of professional knowledge
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題To understand and identify ethical, socially responsible, and sustainability issues
  * C. 問題解決與研究能力Problem solving and research capability
  * D. 溝通能力Communication skills
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力Team work and leadership
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Since the world is more connected than ever before, understanding the impacts of global macroeconomic issues has become one of the key factors when individuals and businesses make decisions. By the end of this course, students will be able to apply macroeconomic tools to the real-world issues and analyze those impacts.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1  
Feb 19 |  Global Imbalances and Current Account |  Global Imbalances (Ch. 1) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
2  
Feb 26 |  Current Account Sustainability (Ch. 2) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
3  
Mar 5 |  Small Open Economy |  An Intertemporal Theory of the Current Account (Ch. 3) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
4  
Mar 12 |  Current Account Determination in a Production Economy (Ch. 5) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
5  
Mar 19 |  Uncertainty and the Current Account (Ch. 6) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
6  
Mar 26 |  Midterm Exam 1  
7  
Apr 2 |  No Class (Intercollegiate Activities)  
8  
Apr 9 |  Large Open Economy |  Large Open Economies (Ch. 7) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
9  
Apr 16 |  International Goods and Capital Market |  The Real Exchange Rate and Purchasing Power Parity (Ch. 8) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
10  
Apr 23 |  Determinants of the Real Exchange Rate (Ch. 9) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
11  
Apr 30 |  International Capital Market Integration (Ch. 10) & Capital Controls (Ch. 11) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
12  
May 7 |  Midterm Exam 2  
13  
May 14 |  Nominal Exchange Rate |  Nominal Rigidity, Exchange Rate Policy, and Unemployment (Ch. 12) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
14  
May 21 |  No Class (University Anniversary)  
15  
May 28 |  Nominal Exchange Rate |  Monetary Policy and Nominal Exchange Rate Determination (Ch. 13) |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
16  
Jun 4 |  Final Exam  
17  
Jun 11 |  Flexible Week  
18  
Jun 18 |  Flexible Week  
Class Attendance : Attendance is checked regularly. An unexcused absence will make one minus point in the participation section of the grading. Being late will make a half minus point.
Policy on missed exam : The dates of the midterm and final exams are fixed. Students who experience a serious medical condition that requires immediate attention from a physician, or an emergency that prevents them from taking the exam may be excused. However, students must contact the instructor _before_ the exam and must _verify_ their condition by official documents. No exceptions will be made for job interviews, holiday travel, or other non-academic activities. When a student is properly excused from an exam, no make-up exam will be offered. Instead, his or her course grade will be adjusted based on other exams and homework.
Policy on Regrading: If, after reviewing the exam answers, a student feels that there is a grading mistake on his or her exam, that student can submit a re-grade request. The student must submit a written discussion _within one week_ from the time at which the exams are handed back. When regrade request is accepted, the entire exam will be regraded, which could lower the score as well.
Academic Dishonesty: Cheating hurts our community by undermining academic integrity, creating mistrust, and fostering unfair competition. The university will punish cheaters with failure on an assignment, failure in a course, permanent transcript notation, and/or expulsion. Violations can include cheating on exams, plagiarism, reuse of assignments without permission, improper use of the Internet and electronic devices, unauthorized collaboration, alteration of graded assignments, forgery, falsification and lying. 
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.