國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際貿易爭端與商業糾紛解決
#####  Course Name: Settlement of International Trade and Commercial Disputes
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：351709001 Course No.351709001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國貿碩一、國貿博一、國貿碩二、國貿博二 Course Department:International Business/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：楊培侃 Instructor: YANG PEI KAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
The dispute settlement system in the WTO has played a crucial role in solving international trade disputes among WTO Members at the multilateral level. This course analyzes how WTO Members use such multilateral dispute settlement system in settling trade disputes based on substantive trade rules agreed upon such as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) or the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS).
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHI雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 專業知識之理論基礎Theoretical foundations of professional knowledge
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題To understand and identify ethical, socially responsible, and sustainability issues
  * C. 問題解決與研究能力Problem solving and research capability
  * D. 溝通能力Communication skills
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力Team work and leadership
  * F. 專業知識之理論基礎Theoretical foundations of professional knowledge
  * G. 理解與辨別商業環境中道德、社會責任與永續議題To understand and identify ethical, socially responsible, and sustainability issues
  * H. 研究與發表能力Research and publication capability
  * I. 在專業領域能深入研究Ability to conduct research in specialized areas
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Instead of examining substantive international trade rules, this course focuses on addressing various aspects of procedural issues in the WTO dispute settlement at different stages of consultation, adjudication and implementation. The purpose of this course is to familiarize students with the unique WTO mechanism that underscores the rule-based approach for the solution of trade disputes among WTO Members.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Week |  SUBJECT COVERED & ASSIGNED READINGS  
---|---  
01 |  Topic 1: Introduction to WTO Dispute Settlement System/3h  
  1. _Introduction to the WTO Dispute Settlement System_ and _Historic Development of the WTO Dispute Settlement System_ in Handbook, p. 1-16.
  2. John H. Jackson, _Fragmentation or Unification among International Institutions: The World Trade Organization_ , 31 J. Int’l L. & Politics 823 (1998), pp. 823-831.
  3. Joost Pauwelyn, _The Transformation of World Trade_ , 104 Mich. L. Rev. 1 (2005), pp. 1-9.
02 |  Topic 2: Stages and Process of WTO Dispute Settlement/3h  
  1. _The Process - Stages in a Typical WTO Dispute Settlement Case_ in Handbook, p. 43-75.
  2. William J. Davey, _The WTO Dispute Settlement Mechanism_ (2003), at http://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=419943
03 |  Topic 3:Legal Basis and Types of WTO Complaints/3h  
  1. _Legal Basis for a Dispute_ in Handbook, p.28-37.
  2. Jim Durling and Simon Lester, _Original Meanings and the Film Dispute: The Drafting History, Textual Evolution, and Application of the Non-Violation Nullification or Impairment Remedy_ , 32 Geo. Wash. J. Int'l L. & Econ. 211 (1999), pp.211-214; pp.2401-269.
  3. Joost Pauwelyn, _A Typology of Multilateral Treaty Obligations: Are WTO Obligation Bilateral or Collective in Nature?_ 14 Eur. J. Int'l L. 907 (2003), p.907-9, p. 915-917, p. 941-945
  4. Understand on The Interpretation of GATT Article XXIV, para. 13-15 at http://www.wto.org/english/docs_e/legal_e/10-24.doc
04 |  Topic 4:Jurisdiction and Possible Objects of a WTO Complaint/3h  
  1. _Possible Object of a Complaint – Jurisdiction of Panels and the Appellate Body_ in Handbook, pp. 38-42.
  2. Alan Yanovich and Tania Voon, _What is the Measure at Issue?_ in Andrew D. Mitchell, Challenges and Prospects for the WTO, Cameron May Ltd. (2005), pp. 115-131.
  3. Gary N. Horlick & Glenn R. Butterton, _A Problem of Process in WTO Jurisprudence: Identifying Disputed Issues in Panels and Consultations_ , 31 Law & Pol’y Int’l Bus. 573 (2000), pp. 573-582.
05 |  Topic 5: Sources of Law and Treaty Interpretation/3h  
  1. Dsavid Palmeter and Petros Mavroidis, _The WTO Legal System: Sources of Law_ , 92 Am. J. Int'l L. 398 (1998), pp.398-413.
  2. Michael Lennard, _Navigating by the Stars: Interpreting the WTO Agreements_ , 5 J. Int'l Econ. L. 17 (2002), pp. 17-79.
  3. Joost Pauwelyn, Reply to Joshua Meltzer, 25 Mich. J. Int’l L. 924 (2004).
06 |  Topic 6: WTO Laws, National Laws and Other International Laws/3h  
  1. John H. Jackson, _Status of Treaties in Domestic Legal Systems: A Policy Analysis_ , 86 Am. J. Int'l L. 310 (1992), pp.310-340.
  2. Joost Pauwelyn, _How to Win a WTO Dispute Based on non-WTO Law_ , 37:6 Journal of World Trade 997 (2003), p. 1005-1019.
  3. Joel Trachtman, _The Domain of WTO Dispute Resolution_ , 40 Harv. Int'l L.J. 333 (1999), p. 333-377.
  4. Joost Pauwelyn,_The Role of Public International Law in the WTO: How Far Can We Go?_ , 95 Am. J. Int'l L. 535 (2001), p.535-578.
  5. Joost Pauwelyn, _Bridging Fragmentation and Unity: International Law as a Universe of Inter-connected Islands_ , 25 Mich. J. Int'l L. 903 (2004), pp.913-916.
07 |  Topic 7: Players in WTO Dispute Settlement (I): Dispute Settlement Body, Expert and Appellate Body/3h  
  1. _WTO Bodies Involved in the Dispute Settlement Process_ in Handbook, p. 17-27, 97-100.
  2. Joost Pauwelyn, _The Use of Experts in WTO Dispute Settlement_ , 51 Int’l & Comp. L. Q. 325 (2002), at http://www.hydro.duke.edu/solutions/documents/useofexperts.pdf, pp.325-364.
  3. The Rules of Conduct for WTO Dispute Settlement. 
  4. James Bacchus, _Table Talk: Around the Table of the Appellate Body of the WTO_ , 35 Vand. J. Transnat’l L. 1021 (2002), pp.1021-1039.
  5. John Kingery,_Commentary: Operation of Dispute Settlement Panels_ , 31 Law & Pol’y Int’l Bus. 665 (2000), pp.665-673.
08 |  Topic 8: Players in WTO Dispute Settlement (II): Third Parties, NGOs and Private Attorney/3h  
  1. _Participation in Dispute Settlement Proceedings_ , in Handbook, p. 97-100.
  2. Petros Mavroids, _Amicus Briefs before the WTO: Much ado About Nothing_? Jean Monnet Working Paper 2/01, at http://www.worldtradelaw.net/articles/mavroidisamicus.pdf, pp.1-17.
  3. Joseph Weiler, _The Rule of Lawyers and the Ethos of Diplomats: Reflections on the Internal and External legitimacy of WTO Dispute Settlement_ , 35 Journal of World Trade 191 (2001), p.193-200.
  4. Jessica C. Pearlman, _Participation by Private Counsel in World Trade Organization Dispute Settlement Proceedings_ , 30 Law & Pol’y Int’l Bus. 399 (1999), pp.399-415.
  5. Philip M. Nichols, _Extension of Standing in World Trade Organization Disputes to Nongovernment Parties_ , 17 U. Pa. J. Int’l Econ. L. 295 (1996), pp.295-329.
09 |  Topic 9: Procedural Issues (I): Standing, Burden of Proof and Role of Precedent/3h  
  1. _Legal Issues Arising in WTO Dispute Settlement Proceedings_ in Handbook, p. 101-108.
  2. Joost Pauwelyn, _Evidence, Proof and Persuasion in WTO Dispute Settlement, Who Bears the Burden?_ 1 J. Int’l Econ. L. 227 (1998), pp.227-229, 233-235, 237-246, 252-258.
  3. Philip M. Nichols, _Two Snowflakes are Alike: Assumptions Made in the Debate over Standing before the World Trade Organization Dispute Settlement Boards_ , 24 Fordham Int'l L.J. 427 (2000), pp.427-443.
  4. Adrian T. L. Chua, _Precedent and Principles of WTO Panel Jurisprudence_ , 16 Berkeley J. Int’l L. 171 (1998), pp.171-196.
10 |  Topic 10: Procedural Issues (II): Judicial Economy and Standard of Review/3h  
  1. Steven Croley & John Jackson, _WTO Dispute Procedures, Standard of Review and Deference to National Governments_ , 90 Am. J. Int'l L. 193 (1996), p.193-213.
  2. Stefan Zleptnig, _The Standard of Review in WTO Law: A Analysis of Law, Legitimacy and the Distribution of Legal and Political Authority_ , at http://eiop.or.at/eiop/pdf/2002-017.pdf
  3. Mattthias Oesch, _Standards of Review in WTO Dispute Resolution_ , 6 J. Int'l Econ. L. 635 (2003), pp.635-659.
11 |  Topic 11: Remedies in WTO Dispute Settlement  
  1. _Implementation by the “Losing” Member_ , _Legal Effect of Panel and Appellate Body Reports and DSB Recommendations and Rulings_ and _Dispute Settlement without Recourse to Panels and the Appellate Body_ in Handbook, p. 74-87, 88-91, 92-96.
  2. Petros C. Mavroidis,_Remedies in the WTO Legal System: Between a Rock and a Hard Place_ , 11:4 Eur. J. Int'l L. 763 (2000), p.763-766, 774-813.
  3. Joost Pauwelyn, _Enforcement and Countermeasures in the WTO: Rules are Rules - Toward a More Collective Approach_ , 94 Am. J. Int'l L. 335 (2000) p. 335-347.
  4. Mark Movsesian, _Enforcement of WTO Rulings: An Interest Group Analysis_ , 32 Hofstra L. Rev. 1 (2003), p.1-21.
  5. Steve Sharnovitz & Jason Kearns, _Adjudicating Compliance in the WTO_ , 5 J. Int'l Econ. L. 331 (2002), pp.331-352.
12 |  Topic 12: Calculation and Selection of Trade Sanctions/3h  
  1. Marco Bronckers & Naboth van den Broeck,_Financial Compensation in the WTO: Improving the Remedies of WTO Dispute Settlement_ , 8 J. Int'l Econ. L. 101 (2005), p.101-126.
  2. Warren Schwartz & Alan Sykes, _The Economic Structure of Renegotiation and Dispute Resolution in the WTO_ , 31 J. Legal Stud. 179 (2002), p.179-204.
  3. EC-Hormone beef arbitration；US-FSC arbitration; US-Byrd arbitration
  4. Joost Pauwelyn, _How Binding Are WTO Rules? A Transatlantic Analysis of International Law_ , at http://eprints.law.duke.edu/1315/1/wto_rules.pdf
13 |  Topic 13: Proposed Reform of WTO Dispute Settlement System/3h  
  1. Select one of WTO Members’ reform proposal on WTO website under the document title TN/DS/W/ and provide your written comment.
  2. Judith Hippler Bello,_The WTO Dispute Settlement Understanding: Less is More_ , 90 Am. J. Int'l L. 416 (1996), pp.416-418.
  3. Kim Van der Borght, _The Review of the WTO Understanding on Dispute Settlement: Some Reflections on the Current Debate_ , 14 Am. U. Int’l L. Rev. 1223 (1999), pp.1223-1243.
  4. Donald McRae, _What is the Future of WTO Dispute Settlement?_ 7 J. Int;l Econ. L. 3 (2004).
14 |  Case Study (I): China Currency Case/3h  
| 
  1. Japan – Film (WT/DS44)
  2. IMF Executive Board Concludes 2005 Article IV Consultation with the People's Republic of China, Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 05/122, September 12, 2005, at http://www.imf.org/external/np/sec/pn/2005/pn05122.htm. 
15 |  Case Study (II): Sweat Biscuits Case/3h  
| 
  1. Canada – Dairy (WT/DS103, 113) 
  2. EC – Sugar (WT/DS265, 266, 283) 
  3. US – Cotton (WT/DS267)
16 |  Case Study (III): Diamonds Case/3h  
| 
  1. Section I, Definitions, of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, at http://www.kimberleyprocess.com. 
  2. Decision by the WTO Council for Trade in Goods recommending that the WTO General Council grants the waiver, see WTO news item at http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/news03_e/goods_council_26fev03_e.htm. WTO document G/C/W/432/Rev.1, dated 24 February 2003. 
17 |  In-Class Presentations and Discussions/3h  
18 |  In-Class Presentations and Discussions/3h  
####  其他： Others: 課堂報告 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.