國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：無形資產報導與評價 
#####  Course Name: Reporting and Valuation of Intangible Assets
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：353844001 Course No.353844001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_1.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：會計碩一、會碩稅一、會計碩二、會碩稅二 Course Department:Accounting/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：蘇瓜藤 Instructor: SU KUA-TERNG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
_Valuation_ by itself is a profession and is a highly regulated industry in well-managed countries. It is useful for purposes of transactions, litigation, taxation, financial reporting and general management. _Transactions_ , in a broad sense, include investment, IPOs, mergers and acquisitions, licensing, technology transfer, etc. For any rational person in the business arena with _duty of care to manage and create value_ , the value that she/he wishes to manage and create would be carefully calculated in order to make _sound informed decisions_ and to take prudent profitable actions.
_Thiscondensed one-credit-unit course is designed to aid motivated graduate and undergraduate students with sufficient accounting and law background (prerequisites: intermediate accounting and civil law at least; preferred: business valuation) in comprehending the theoretical concepts and practical techniques in reporting and valuation of intangible assets. Through the lecture and discussion of pertinent laws, accounting pronouncements, and valuation standards, and research papers on intangible assets, this course should help develop the student's ability to report on and analyze value of intangible assets._
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 習得會計與稅務相關 專業領域知識 Students will acquire accounting and taxation-related areas of expertise.
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、 社會責任與永續議題 Students will understand and be able to identify the ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability considerations of business situations.
  * C. 運用研究方法解決問題 並制定決策，培養專業 判斷能力 Students will apply research methods to solve problems, make decisions and develop professional ability to judge.
  * D. 培養創新思考、國際視野與良好溝通能力 Students will develop the innovative thinking, international perspective and good communication skills.
  * E. 發展團隊合作能力與 運用領導技能 Students will develop teamwork skills and apply the leadership skills.
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
_The objective of this course is to help the NCCU accounting students pursue valuation knowledge. The course will aid them in comprehending the modern valuation. It covers valuation concepts, methods, and professional standards, with practical applications for business and intangible assets. After successfully completing the course, the students should be able to apply the concepts, methods, and standards to their real-world businesses._
_Use of generative AI is encouraged for learning and discussion process. However, it isNOT allowed in the final test for scoring purpose._
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
18週18 weeks | 無彈性補充教學週No flexible supplemental instruction week  
_CLASS SCHEDULE_
_Week Date Subjects and Assignments_
  1. 3/05 Introduction to the course
Introduction to valuation of business and intangible assets
Analysis of intangible assets
  1. 3/12 Accounting for intangible assets 
Fair value measurements: IFRS 13 & ASC 820 
  1. 3/19 Basic valuation concepts and techniques
Taiwan’s Valuation Standards #1~#7
  1. 3/26 Common approaches to valuing intangible assets
  1. 4/09 Analysis of goodwill
Valuation examples for mergers and acquisitions
  1. 4/30 Real option valuation for pharma. R&D investment and licensing
_Final test_ (due 5 /16 )
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.