國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際企業管理研討 
#####  Course Name: Seminar in International Business Management
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：355630001 Course No.355630001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：企博學一、企博學二 Course Department:Business Administration/D/1&2 
  * 授課老師：譚丹琪 Instructor: TAN DANCHI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
The course provides a forum for discussion of various issues related to international management and strategy. The topics include the following: headquarters-subsidiary relationships, cultural and political environments of multinational firms, doing business in emerging markets, CSR, and other international strategy related issues. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 習得相關進階專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別商業環境中道德、社會責任與永續議題 (Students will understand and be able to identify the ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability considerations of business situations.)
  * C. 發展必要的研究能力為學術界貢獻 (Students will develop the research capabilities necessary to contribute to academia.)
  * D. 在專業領域能深入研究(Students will acquire professional skills.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Students are expected to learn about some of the theoretical perspectives and empirical approaches about doing research in the international management field.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
The instructor will assign papers to the participant(s) to present in each session. The responsibilities of the presenter are:
  1. indicating key points in the paper and leading discussion;
  2. commenting on the paper and raising research questions if possible; and 
  3. preparing a copy of the summary for each participant (including the instructor)
Expected time for reading the course materials and for preparing the summary is between six to ten hours or even more each week, depending on the lengths of the articles. The final term paper is expected to take 80 or more hours to complete.
Tentative Course Schedule (readings to be revised)
3. Tentative Course Schedule
2/21 Administration and overview of course objectives and topics covered
2/28 National holiday
3/7 External (cultural) environments of MNEs -1
Shenkar, O. (2001). Cultural distance revisited: Towards a more rigorous conceptualization and measurement of cultural differences. Journal of international business studies, 32, 519-535.
Beugelsdijk, S., Kostova, T., Kunst, V. E., Spadafora, E., & Van Essen, M. (2018). Cultural distance and firm internationalization: A meta-analytical review and theoretical implications. Journal of Management, 44(1), 89-130.
Batra, R., Arunachalam, S., Wong, N.Y.C. et al. Unpacking collective materialism: how values shape consumption in seven Asian markets. J Int Bus Stud 55, 361–375 (2024).
3/14 External (institutional) environments of MNEs -2
Kim, H., & Song, J. (2017). Filling institutional voids in emerging economies: The impact of capital market development and business groups on M&A deal abandonment. _Journal of International Business Studies_ , _48_(3), 308-323.
Kostova, T., Beugelsdijk, S., Scott, W. R., Kunst, V. E., Chua, C. H., & van Essen, M. (2020). The construct of institutional distance through the lens of different institutional perspectives: Review, analysis, and recommendations. Journal of International Business Studies, 51, 467-497.
Mol, M.J., Lee, S.H. What produces corporate social irresponsibility in offshore outsourcing? The effects of interorganizational relationship governance and institutional distance. J Int Bus Stud 55, 577–592 (2024).
3/21 External environments of MNEs -3
Marano, V., Tashman, P., & Kostova, T. (2017). Escaping the iron cage: Liabilities of origin and CSR reporting of emerging market multinational enterprises. Journal of International Business Studies, 48, 386-408. 
Oliver, C. (1991) Strategic responses to institutional processes, AMR, 16(1):145-179.
Donnelly, R., Purkayastha, S., Manolova, T.S. et al. Institutional distance, slack resources, and foreign market entry. J Int Bus Stud 55, 194–211 (2024)..
3/28 External environments of MNEs -4
Miller. 1992. A framework for integrated risk management in international business. JIBS, 23: 311-332.
Oh, C. H., & Oetzel, J. (2022). Multinational enterprises and natural disasters: Challenges and opportunities for IB research. Journal of International Business Studies, 1-24.
Gianfrate, G., Rubin, M., Ruzzi, D. et al. On the resilience of ESG firms during the COVID-19 crisis: evidence across countries and asset classes. J Int Bus Stud 55, 1069–1084 (2024)
4/4 Headquarters-subsidiary relationships
O’Donnell, S. W. (2000). Managing foreign subsidiaries: agents of headquarters, or an interdependent network?. _Strategic management journal_ , _21_(5), 525-548.
Zeng, R., Grøgaard, B. & Björkman, I. Navigating MNE control and coordination: A critical review and directions for future research. J Int Bus Stud 54, 1599–1622 (2023).
Birkinshaw, J., & Hood, N. (1998). Multinational subsidiary evolution: Capability and charter change in foreign-owned subsidiary companies. Academy of management review, 23(4), 773-795.
4/11 Emerging economies and MNEs
Meyer, Klaus E.; Estrin, Saul; Bhaumik, Sumon K. & Peng, Mike W. (2009) Institutions, Resources, and Entry Strategies in Emerging Economies. SMJ, 30(1): 61-80.
Ramanurti. 2012. What is really different about emerging market multinationals? Global Strategy Journal, 2: 41-47
Awate, Larsen, and Mudambi. 2012. EMNE catch-up strategies in the wind turbine industry: Is there a trade-off between output and innovation capabilities, Global Strategy Journal, 2: 205-223.
4/18Business groups and family firms
Khanna and Rivkin 2001. Estimating the performance effects of business groups in emerging markets. SMJ, 22(1): 45-74.
Hennart, J.F., Majocchi, A., & Forlani, E. 2017. The myth of the stay-at-home family firm: How family-managed SMEs can overcome their internationalization limitations. Journal of International Business Studies, doi.org/10.1057/s41267-017-0091-y
Gu, Q., Wang, S.L. & Bai, T. Revealed and reserved: a compensating approach of voluntary disclosure by family multinationals. J Int Bus Stud 55, 914–933 (2024).
4/25 Innovation and Learning
Szulanski, G. 1996. Exploring internal stickness: Impediments to the transfer of best practice within the firm. Strategic Management Journal, 17(winter special): 27-43.
Monteiro, Arvidsson, and Birkinshaw. 2008. Knowledge flows within multinational corporations; Explaining subsidiary isolation and its performance implications. Organization Science, 19(1): 90-107.
Bu, J., Tang, Y., Luo, Y. et al. Learning from inbound foreign acquisitions for outbound expansion by emerging market MNEs. J Int Bus Stud 54, 852–886 (2023).
5/2 Sharing and digital economy
Parente, R. C., Geleilate, J. M. G., & Rong, K. (2018). The sharing economy globalization phenomenon: A research agenda. Journal of International Management, 24(1), 52-64.
Tatarinov, K., Ambos, T.C. & Tschang, F.T. Scaling digital solutions for wicked problems: Ecosystem versatility. J Int Bus Stud 54, 631–656 (2023).
Chen, L., Li, S., Wei, J. et al. Externalization in the platform economy: Social platforms and institutions. J Int Bus Stud 53, 1805–1816 (2022).
5/9 International Marketing
Kozlenkova, I. V., Lee, J. Y., Xiang, D., & Palmatier, R. W. (2021). Sharing economy: International marketing strategies. Journal of International Business Studies, 1-29.
Kumar, V., Nim, N., & Agarwal, A. (2021). Platform-based mobile payments adoption in emerging and developed countries: Role of country-level heterogeneity and network effects. Journal of International Business Studies, 52, 1529-1558.
Jean, RJ.“., Kim, D., Zhou, K.Z. et al. E-platform use and exporting in the context of Alibaba: A signaling theory perspective. J Int Bus Stud 52, 1501–1528 (2021).
5/16 CSR -1
Ioannou, I., & Serafeim, G. (2012). What drives corporate social performance? The role of nation-level institutions. Journal of international business studies, 43, 834-864.
Wiessner, Y.T., Giuliani, E., Wijen, F. et al. Towards a more comprehensive assessment of FDI’s societal impact. J Int Bus Stud 55, 50–70 (2024).
Nippa, M., Patnaik, S., & Taussig, M. (2021). MNE responses to carbon pricing regulations: Theory and evidence. Journal of International Business Studies, 52, 904-929.
5/23 CSR -2
Zhou, N., & Wang, H. (2020). Foreign subsidiary CSR as a buffer against parent firm reputation risk. Journal of International Business Studies, 51, 1256-1282.
Kim, N., Sun, J., Yin, H. et al. Do foreign firms help make local firms greener? Evidence of environmental spillovers in China. J Int Bus Stud 53, 1370–1393 (2022)
Asmussen, C.G., Fosfuri, A., Larsen, M.M. et al. Corporate social responsibility in the global value chain: A bargaining perspective. J Int Bus Stud 54, 1175–1192 (2023).
5/30 campus holiday
6/6 Global Supply Chain
Wang, S.L., Lee, Y. & Li, D. Smart disclosure: an enabler for multinationals to reduce human rights violations in global supply chains. J Int Bus Stud 55, 450–469 (2024)
Li, C., Cuervo-Cazurra, A. How subsidiary and supplier misbehavior lead to corporate social responsibility performance improvements in multinationals. J Int Bus Stud 55, 470–491 (2024).
Lee, J.Y., Kim, D., Choi, B. et al. Early evidence on how Industry 4.0 reshapes MNEs’ global value chains: The role of value creation versus value capturing by headquarters and foreign subsidiaries. J Int Bus Stud 54, 599–630 (2023).
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.