國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：投資決策與管理 
#####  Course Name: Investment Decisions and Management
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：357029001 Course No.357029001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：財管碩一 Course Department:Finance/M/1 
  * 授課老師：周冠男 Instructor: ROBIN CHOU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一D56 Session: mon13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This is a graduate level course in Investment Decisions and Management. We will start by discussing traditional investment theory and then focus on Behavioral Finance in later part of the class. Traditional investment theories such as risk measurement, diversification, bond valuation, stock valuation, CAPM and active management portfolios will be introduced.
Behavioral Finance is currently an active area of study in Finance. It focuses on the limited rational (or irrational) aspects of human behavior and their effects on asset prices and financial decisions. Classic behavioral models such as the prospect theory have been in existence for a long time, but do not really catch attentions until recently.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 習得相關進階專業知識 Students will acquire advanced professional knowledge in finance
  * B. 團隊合作能力與領導力 Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills
  * C. 解決財務專業問題能力 Students will acquire financial professional problem solving skills
  * D. 理解與辨別社會責任、企業倫理與永續議題 Students will understand and be able to identify the ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability considerations of business situations.
  * E. 培養創新思考、溝通能力和國際視野 Students will develop creativity, communication skills and a global perspective
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
After taking the class, you are expected to acquire a systematic knowledge in traditional investment and behavioral finance theories and applications. As a bottom line, you will learn how to avoid commonly found financial decision biases. Furthermore, that knowledge hopefully will help you advance your future career in finance, either in the industry or in the academia.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 參與校內外課程相關學習活動或社會服務Participation in on-campus or off-campus learning activities or community service related to the course  
Week |  Date |  Topic |  Preparation/Note  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  2/17 |  Introduction |   
2 |  2/24 |  Foundations of Finance I: Expected Utility Theory Foundation of Finance II: Asset Pricing, Market Efficiency, and Agency Relationships |  Ch. 1 Ch. 2  
3 |  3/3 |  Risk and Return Measurement and Market Efficiency |   
4 |  3/10 |  Diversification and CAPM |   
5 |  3/17 |  Prospect Theory, Framing, and Mental Accounting Challenges to Market Efficiency |  Ch. 3 Ch. 4  
6 |  3/24 |  Heuristics and Biases Case Study I: Behavioral Finance at JP Morgan (HBS 9-207-084) |  Ch. 5  
7 |  3/30 |  Academic Paper Discussion I: Gao and Lin, 2015. “Do Individual Investors Treat Trading as a Fun and Exciting Gambling Activity? Evidence from Repeated Natural Experiments.” Review of Financial Studies, 28, Issue 7, 2128–2166, |   
8 |  4/7 |  _Midterm Exam_ |   
9 |  4/14 |  Overconfidence Emotional Foundations Academic Paper Discussion II: Yu and Yuan, 2011. “Investor Sentiment and the Mean-Variance Relation.” Journal of Financial Economics 100, 367-381. |  Ch. 6 Ch. 7  
10 |  4/21 |  Implications of Heuristics and Biases for Financial Decision-Making Implications of Overconfidence for Financial Decision-Making |  Ch. 8 Ch. 9  
11 |  4/28 |  Individual Investors and the Force of Emotion |  Ch. 10  
12 |  5/5 |  Social Forces: Selfishness or Altruism? Case Study II: The Price of Life and the Cost of Health Care: Why the Free Market Alone Can’t Fix Health Care (3944BC-PDF-ENG) |  Ch. 11  
13 |  5/12 |  Social Forces at Work: The Collapse of an American Corporation Behavioral Explanation for Anomalies Academic Paper Discussion III: Barber, Lee, Liu and Odean, 2009. “Just How Much Do Individual Investors Lose by Trading?” Review of Financial Studies 22, 609-632. |  Ch. 12 Ch. 13  
14 |  5/19 |  Do Behavioral Factors Explain Stock Market Puzzles?  Rational Managers and Irrational Investors |  Ch. 14 Ch. 15  
15 |  5/26 |  Behavioral Corporate Finance and Managerial Decision-Making Behavioral Investing |  Ch. 16 Ch. 19  
16 | 
### _6/2_
|  _Final Exam_ |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.