國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：保險產業專題 
#####  Course Name: Seminar of Insurance Industry
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：358063001 Course No.358063001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：風管博一、風管博二 Course Department:Risk Management and Insurance/D/1&2 
  * 授課老師：鄭士卿 Instructor: JENG SHIH-CHING 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二EFG Session: tue18-21
##  課程簡介Course Description
  1. Conduct of Class
This class will be conducted on a seminar basis. You are expected to read the assigned material before class and to be prepared to discuss or present it. You will be treated as mature professionals.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 習得風險管理與保險之理論暨實證研究知識技能 (Students will acquire advanced knowledge in risk management and insurance.)
  * B. 理解與辨別商業環境中道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and identify ethical, socially responsible, and sustainability issues 
  * C. 發展風險管理與保險專業領域必要的研究能力為學術界貢獻 (Students will develop the research capabilities necessary to contribute to academia.)
  * D. 獨立從事風險管理與保險理論或實證研究能力、獲得精進的專業技能(Students will acquire an in-depth understanding of leading research within their chosen area of specialization、Students will acquire professional skills.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Understand the professional journal papers of insuance industry.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
17+1週17+1 weeks | 第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
  * Area Paper: each student will find a topic for your area paper. We have two dates to present the progress of your paper.
  * For mid-report: You will present your report, including the
  1. Title
  2. Motivation
  3. Literature Review
  4. How to find your data
  5. Hypothesis 
  * On the second date, you will present your final paper, which should include:
  1. Hypothesis
  2. Data and Methodology
  3. Preliminary Results (including descriptive statistics, basic regression results, etc.)
The written report will be handed in at the same day.
  1. Readings
The attached list of readings is intended to be a working bibliography rather than a comprehensive class reading list. Only selected papers will be covered in this class. The student should hand in either a 2-page summary (no more than two pages, and preferred) or a PPT file of the paper in the beginning of the presentation. The grade of the presentation will include the grade of your summary.
Reading List
  1. Empirical Studies in Asymmetric Information
Chiappori, Pierre-Andre, Salanie, Bernard, 2000, “Testing for Asymmetric Information in Insurance Markets,” Journal of Political Economy 108: 56-78.
Chalmers, J., Dann, L.Y., and Harford, J., 2002, “Managerial Opportunism? Evidence from Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance Pruchases,” Journal of Finance 609-636.
Cohen, A., and P. Siegelman, 2010, “Testing for Adverse Selection in Insurance Markets,” _Journal of Risk and Insurance_ , 77: 39-84.
  1. Insurance and Reinsurance Demand
Mayers, Davids and Clifford W. Smith, Jr, 1982, “On the Corporate Demand for Insurance,” Journal of Business 55: 281-196.
Core, J. E., 1997, “On the Corporate Demand for Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance,”  _Journal of Risk and Insurance_ , 64: 63-88.
Laureen Regan and Yeon Hur, 2007, “On the Corporate Demand for Insurance: The Case of Korean Nonfinancial Firms,” Journal of Risk and Insurance 74: 829-850.
Flannery, M. J. and Rangan K. P., 2006, “Partial Adjustment toward Target Capital Structures,” Journal of Financial Economics 79: 469-506.
Cole, Cassandra R. and McCullough, Kathleen A., 2006, “A Reexamination of the Corporate Demand for Reinsurance,” Journal of Risk and Insurance 73: 169-192.
Shiu, Yung-Ming, 2011, “Reinsurance and Capital Structure: Evidence from the United Kingdom Non-Life Insurance Industry,” Journal of Risk and Insurance 78: 475-494.
  1. Profitability and Efficiency Studies
Cummins, J. D., M. A. Weiss, 2012, “Analyzing Firm Performance in the Insurance Industry Using Frontier Efficiency and Productivity Methods,” Handbook of Insurance Economics, Boston: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Cummins, J. David and Xie, Xiaoying, 2008, “Mergers and Acquisitions in the US Property-liability Insurance Industry: Productivity and Efficiency Effects,” Journal of Banking and Finance 32: 30-55.
  1. Ownership Structure
Zanjani, George, 2007, "Regulation, Capital, and the Evolution of Organizational Form in U.S. Life Insurance," American Economic Review 97: 973-983.
Baranoff, E. and Sager, T., 2003, “The Relations Among Organizational and Distribution Forms and Capital and Asset Risk Structures in The Life Insurance Industry,” Journal of Risk and Insurance 70: 375-400.
Cummins, J.D., M.A. Weiss, H. Zi, 1999, “Organizational Form and Efficiency: The Coexistence of Stock and Mutual Property-Liability Insurers,” Management Science 45: 1254-1269.
  1. Studies in D&O Insurance 
Chalmers, J., Dann, L.Y., and Harford, J., 2002, “Managerial Opportunism? Evidence from Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance Purchases,” Journal of Finance 609-636.
Lin, C., M. S. Officer, R. Wang, and H. Zou, 2013, “Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance and Loan Spreads,” _Journal of Financial Economics_ , 110: 37-60.
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.