國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：策略資訊管理
#####  Course Name: Strategic Information Management
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：363018011 Course No.363018011
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：企研碩一、企研碩二 Course Department:Master of Business Administration Program/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：張欣綠 Instructor: CHANG HSIN-LU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course focuses on top management, strategic perspective for aligning competitive strategy, core competencies, and information technology (IT). The course provides concepts and frameworks for understanding the potential impact of IT on business strategy and performance. We will focus on digital transformation in enterprises and involve a range of topics, from the fundamentals of digital technologies to strategies for implementing transformative initiatives. The course includes four modules, exploring key technologies, frameworks, and strategies in Internet 2.0, 3.0, and 4.0.  Interactive activities, discussions, and case studies will be incorporated to enhance engagement and understanding throughout the class. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 習得相關進階專業知識（Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.）
  * B. 理解與辨別商業環境中道德、社會責任與永續議題（Students will understand and be able to identify the ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability considerations of business situations.）
  * C. 創新方法、創業態度與面對變革的能力（Students can demonstrate innovative, entrepreneurial approaches to manage change.）
  * D. 發現問題、解決問題與決策能力（Students will identify problems, develop and evaluate possible alternatives and make decisions.）
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力（Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.）
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The course includes four modules, from Internet 2.0 to Internet 4.0, covering social strategy, IoT strategy, Data Strategy, and agile development. The four modules capture the key elements of digital transformation in enterprises.
  * _Social Strategy._ Understand what social strategy is and how it has developed. Understand the impact of social media on engagement for brands. We focus on the development of social media strategy and the identification of influencers. The social network analytics workshop provides students with network data analysis using open source Gephi. 
  * _Data Strategies_. The ACCESS + MySQL Labs allow students to engage with data analytics and gain a practical understanding of data applications in enterprises. 
  * _IoT Strategies_ This module provides a comprehensive overview of IoT, covering essential concepts, technologies, applications, and practical aspects. The generative AI workshop will integrate the iterative design thinking process with the creative assistance of generative AI to prototype innovative IoT products.
  * _Agile Development._ This module covers fundamental agile concepts, frameworks, and practical applications. We will use LEGO bricks for a city planning project as a case to provide students with a hands-on exercise to understand agile principles.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 8 週 Week 8 | 參與校內外課程相關學習活動或社會服務Participation in on-campus or off-campus learning activities or community service related to the course  
第 15 週 Week 15 | 參與校內外課程相關學習活動或社會服務Participation in on-campus or off-campus learning activities or community service related to the course  
Week# |  Topics |  Class Agenda  
---|---|---  
1 |  Course Introduction: Digital Transformation | 
  * Course introduction and team formation
  * Digital transformation frameworks and strategies
  * Case discussions
Module I: Web 2.0 -- Social Strategy  
2  |  Social Strategy | 
  * Introduction to Web 2.0
  * Social media strategy
  * Crowd strategy
3 |  Social Strategy Map – Social Media Marketing Campaign Planning | 
  1. Social media marketing myths
  2. Introduction to the strategy map
  3. Defining campaign objectives and target audience
  4. Crafting compelling content
Facebook campaign execution; review report due on 4/30.   
Module II: Agile Development  
4 |  Agile Development Workshop I – LEGO City Planning | 
  1. Introduction to Agile
  2. Scrum roles in the context of LEGO city project
  3. Formation of scrum teams and assignment of roles
  4. Sprint planning for LEGO city project 
5  |  Agile Development Workshop II – LEGO City Execution | 
  1. Sprint Execution – LEGO city
  2. Sprint review, feedback, and adjustment
  3. LEGO city showcase and closing remarks
Group Assignment I: Prepare a feedback report that summarizes the concept your learned during the LEGO city planning workshop. The feedback report needs to summarize the problem, the chosen user stories, Sprint planning details, execution insights, and outcomes. It may include a reflection on the outcomes of each Sprint, evaluate what was accomplished and what challenges were encountered, and discuss any adjustment that may improve the outcome. Visuals such as diagrams, charts, or photos can be included to enhance understanding. The report is due on 3/26.   
Module III: Web 3.0 – IoT+Data Strategy  
6  |  IoT | 
  1. Introduction to IoT
  2. IoT technologies overview
  3. IoT applications and strategies
7  |  SAS Enterprise Miner  |  Lab Activity  
Individual Assignment: the snapshots of SAS in-class assignment; due on 4/2.   
ModuleIV: Web 4.0 – AI+Metaverse Strategy  
8  |  AI and Metaverse | 
  1. Overview AI and its impacts
  2. Introducing types of AI and key technologies
  3. AI in business strategies
  4. Metaverse
9  |  Design Thinking + Generative AI Workshop – Prototyping an innovative IoT product | 
  1. Introduction to design thinking
  2. Design thinking in actions
  3. Introduction to Generative AI in design
  4. Hands-on generative AI exercise
  5. Prototyping and design
  6. Presentation and feedback
Group Assignment II: A business plan for your innovative IoT product, due on 4/30.  
10  |  Case Presentation and Review Facebook Campaign Performance  
|  Case will be announced in class  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.