國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：會計學
#####  Course Name: Accounting
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：363950001 Course No.363950001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：企研碩一 Course Department:Master of Business Administration Program/M/1 
  * 授課老師：潘健民 Instructor: PAN CHIEN-MIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四FG Session: thu19-21
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is an introductory level Accounting course for students with no previous background in business. This course is designed to enhance students’ understanding of the financial reporting processes. The focus of the course is on fundamental accounting concepts and principles. The course shows students how the economic transactions of a firm are prepared and reported in the financial statements and related disclosures. The objective of the course is to provide students with basic skills to prepare, read, and use financial statements. This course also aims to further prepare students for more advanced financial accounting courses as well as to help students become both sophisticated preparers and users of financial accounting information.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 習得相關進階專業知識（Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.）
  * B. 理解與辨別商業環境中道德、社會責任與永續議題（Students will understand and be able to identify the ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability considerations of business situations.）
  * C. 創新方法、創業態度與面對變革的能力（Students can demonstrate innovative, entrepreneurial approaches to manage change.）
  * D. 發現問題、解決問題與決策能力（Students will identify problems, develop and evaluate possible alternatives and make decisions.）
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力（Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.）
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is designed to provide you with an in-depth understanding of the subject covered by the materials: fundamental financial accounting. The nature of this course is demanding and challenging. It is time-consuming even for a graduate student to master the subject. To succeed, you need to devote serious efforts outside of class. Come to each class prepared. 
The course materials are presented through a mix of class lectures, assigned readings, and problems. You should maximize your understanding of the materials by attending and participating in class lectures and discussions. To be successful, you are expected to do the following: 
  1. read the assigned readings and be prepared before you come to the class. 
  2. arrive on time. 
  3. be actively involved in class by asking questions and participating in discussions. 
  4. review the assigned readings and attempt all homework problems after the class. 
After you have done everything you are expected to do, if you still have difficulties with the materials after we discuss in class, my office hours are available for you.
Important Notes and Policies
  1. Exams must be taken as scheduled. No makeup exam will be given under any circumstances. 
  2. Leaving classroom without permission during the exam will be penalized.
  3. Proper classroom manners at all times is expected. 
  4. Turn off your cell-phone during the class session. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 8 週 Week 8 | 參與校內外課程相關學習活動或社會服務Participation in on-campus or off-campus learning activities or community service related to the course  
第 15 週 Week 15 | 參與校內外課程相關學習活動或社會服務Participation in on-campus or off-campus learning activities or community service related to the course  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 |  Apr 17 / Introduction / Chapter 1 – Accounting Information: Users and Uses |  Ch1 |  Ch1 |  3 |  6  
2 |  Arp 24 / Chapter 2 – Financial Statements: An Overview / Chapter 3 – The Accounting Cycle: The Mechanics of Accounting |  Ch2/Ch3 |  Ch2/Ch3 |  3 |  6  
3 |  May 1 / Chapter 4 – Completing the Accounting Cycle / Chapter 5 – Internal Controls: Ensuring the Integrity of Financial Information |  Ch4/Ch5 |  Ch4/Ch5 |  3 |  6  
4 |  May 8 / Chapter 6 – Cash / Chapter 7 – Receivables  |  Ch8/Ch9 |  Ch8/Ch9 |  3 |  6  
5 |  May 15 /Mid-term Exam |  |  |  3 |  6  
6 |  May 22/ Chapter 8 – Inventory and the Cost of Sales / Chapter 9 - Completing the Operating Cycle  |  Ch8/Ch9 |  Ch8/Ch9 |  3 |  6  
7 |  May 29 |  Ch10/Ch11 |  Ch10/Ch11 |  3 |  6  
8 |  Jun 12 / Chapter 12 - Financing: Equity / Chapter 13 - Investments: Debt and Equity Securities / Chapter 14: Statement of Cash Flows / Chapter 15: Analyzing Financial Statements |  Ch12/Ch13 / Ch14/Ch15  |  Ch12/Ch13 / Ch14/Ch15 |  3 |  6  
9 |  Jun 16 /Final Exam |  |  |  |   
10 |  Jun 19 / Review Session |  |  |  |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.