國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：商業分析
#####  Course Name: Business Analytics
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：364776001 Course No.364776001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：科智碩1A、科智碩2A Course Department:Graduate Institute of Technology, Innovation and Intellectual Property Management/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：楊宗翰 Instructor: YANG TSUNG-HAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四EFG Session: thu18-21
##  課程簡介Course Description
We are living in the era of big data. Technologies enable companies to collect tremendous volumes of information; however, many firms complain that they are drowning in a sea of data. Indeed, many items of data are meaningless until they have been analysed by appropriate techniques that may lead to important business insight. Business analytics has thus become one of the most important skills that empower organisations to achieve timelier, and more perceptive decisions to create business value and growth. This English-taught course is designed to provide students with the fundamental concepts and applications necessary to understand the role of business analytics in modern organizations. The students will acquire a range of data mining, visualization, and analytical techniques to facilitate the analysis of enterprise big data (via software tools), and will uncover new information to support business decision-making.  Overall, the course aims to provide you with a solid foundation in the ‘basics of analytics’ and ‘SAS’. We are not going to focus on the derivation of mathematical formulas or advanced SAS code development. Instead, we will use a number of real-life examples (business scenarios) with provided data and SAS code to enable you to practice the process of data analytics. Thus, there is no prerequisite for taking this course. _Note: Students who would like to learn advanced analytic techniques such as optimization, machine learning, and decision trees are not recommended to register for this course. There will only be a brief introduction to these topics, since such techniques require students to have strong quantitative abilities._ Course Arrangement:
  * This 18-week course involves 16 weeks of face-to-face lectures and 2 weeks of independent study. The details of the assignment for the independent study can be found in the “Course Schedule and Requirements” section. 
  * You _do not need_ a strong statistical or any quantitative background before registering for this course, albeit having such backgrounds will facilitate the effectiveness of learning. The aim of this course is not to develop you into a data scientist, which is unrealistic through participating in one 18-week course. Instead, this course will provide a basic understanding of the world of business analytics, assist you in becoming a better business storyteller, and bring benefits to your future business career. 
  * You should have access to SAS 9.4 on your own desktop/laptop, which can be downloaded from the NCCU Campus-Authorized Softwares webpage: https://software.nccu.edu.tw/SoftwareM/
Note: a. The download and installation process can take several hours, depending on your broadband speed. b. SAS 9.4 is exclusively compatible with Windows machines (for Win 64x). Mac users can opt for the free SAS Studio available online but may notice slight differences in the interface. The class will cover the features of both versions. (Note: Windows users can also seamlessly use the SAS Studio without encountering any issues.)
  * We will conclude the class on time each week, with the aim to teach all the content designed for the taught sessions. However, we may require some flexibility in the schedule. Namely, if we are unable to finish teaching the topic, then we will continue to lecture that content in the following week, in order to avoid the omission of important information.
---  
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 習得科管與智財相關進階專業知識 (Students will acquire advanced professional knowledge in Technology, Innovation and Intellectual Property Management)
  * B. 理解與辨別社會責任與永續議題 (Students will understand and be able to identify social responsibility and sustainability issues)
  * C. 培養創新思考、分析方法和國際視野 (Students will use innovative thinking skills and analytical methods to enhance professional competence as well as develop a global perspective)
  * D. 專業溝通技能 (Students are able to communicate professionally)
  * E. 團隊合作能力、培養領導技能 (Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Course Objectives:
  * To acquire a broad understanding and knowledge of important business analytic topics
  * To develop the abilities of data analytics and awareness of how the results can uncover new information and be used to support decision-making in a range of business areas
  * To familiarize with data analysis software: SAS
  * To develop the ability of critical thinking 
Learning Outcomes By the end of this course, students will be able to:
  * Recognize various descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive analytical methods
  * Apply analytical models based on practical business problems and implement analytical models via the software tools
  * Interpret their model outcomes to facilitate the business decision-making process
---  
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 16 週 Week 16 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
|  週次 |  課程主題 |  課程內容與指定閱讀 |  教學活動與作業  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  (2/20) Session 1: Introduction to Business Analytics |  Konasani and Kadre Ch1 |  Lecture、Lab  
2 |  (2/27) Session 2: SAS Introduction |  Konasani and Kadre Ch2 |  Lecture、Lab  
3 |  (3/6) Session 3: Data Handling Using SAS |  Konasani and Kadre Ch3 |  Lecture、Lab  
4 |  (3/13) Session 4: Important SAS Functions and Procs |  Konasani and Kadre Ch4 |  Lecture、Lab  
5 |  (3/20) Session 5: Introduction to Statistical Analysis |  Konasani and Kadre Ch5 |  Lecture、Lab  
6 |  (3/27) Session 6: Basic Descriptive Statistics and Reporting in SAS |  Konasani and Kadre Ch6 |  Lecture、Lab  
7 |  (4/3) Spring Break |  Spring Break |  Spring Break  
8 |  (4/10) Session 7: Data Exploration, Validation, and Data Sanitization |  Konasani and Kadre Ch7 |  Lecture、Lab  
9 |  (4/17) Session 8: Testing of Hypothesis |  Konasani and Kadre Ch8 |  Lecture、Lab  
10 |  (4/24) Session 8: Testing of Hypothesis |  Konasani and Kadre Ch8 |  Lecture、Lab  
11 |  (5/1) Session 9: Correlation and Linear Regression |  Konasani and Kadre Ch9 |  Lecture、Lab  
12 |  (5/8) Session 10: Multiple Regression Analysis |  Konasani and Kadre Ch10 |  Lecture、Lab  
13 |  (5/15) Session 11: Logistic Regression |  Konasani and Kadre Ch11 |  Lecture、Lab  
14 |  (5/22) Session 12: Time-Series Analysis and Forecasting |  Konasani and Kadre Ch12 |  Lecture、Lab  
15 |  (5/29) Session 13: Introduction to Data Mining and Big Data Analytics |  bespoke materials |  Lecture、Lab  
16 |  (6/5) Independent study |  |  Lecture、Lab  
17 |  (6/12) Group presentation |  Presentation slides due 12:00 noon, 6/11 |  Group presentation  
18 |  (6/19) Independent study |  Final report due 12:00 noon, 6/19 |   
The above schedule is subject to adjustments based on actual circumstances, with the latest version takingprecedence. In case of any changes, notifications will be provided before the class, so please stay informed.
Lecture structure:
_- first part: 18:00-19:20 | 20 min break | second part: 19:40-20:50 | close: 20:50-21:00_
Independent Study:
There will be two independent study weeks: June 5, 2025, and June 19, 2025. During these weeks, you will review your final report with your group members and document each member’s contributions in the report.
Term Project (group-based with consideration of individual participation) :
Teams will apply the business analytics tools learned in this course to a chosen topic (e.g. the business issues in a chosen industry and how to analyze the collected data to develop recommendations) in order to complete a group report and group presentation. The project format and outline will be introduced in the lecture. Besides, the add and drop period ends in Week 2. Accordingly, you will join the belonging group in Week 3. You are free to select your team members, although please remember that the maximum group size is 5 people. Please inform me in writing with your preferred team members' names before the end of the Week 3 lecture. You will be assigned the group ID in the following week.
1. Final Presentation 
(Presentation on June 12, 2025; Presentation slides due 12:00 noon, June 11, 2025)
Each team should prepare a 20–30 minute presentation that introduces your project and analysis.
You will receive comments/feedback that can assist you in completing the final report.
2. Final Report 
(Final Report due 12:00 noon, June 19, 2025)
Your group report will contain _3000 words_ (+/- 10%), excluding tables, figures, and references, and should be written in English. The report requires a cover page that includes the title of your study, and the names of all those who have participated (no abstract is necessary). You should reference your sources and articles following the Harvard referencing guidelines, and you MUST give careful consideration to the issue of plagiarism. Besides, late submissions will incur a 3% grade penalty per weekday (excluding holidays) if the submission is late.
Note: An additional guideline on how to write a quantitative report will be taught after the “Correlation and Linear Regression” session.  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.