國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：綠色科技創新
#####  Course Name: Green Technology Innovation
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：364803001 Course No.364803001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：科智碩1A、科智碩2A Course Department:Graduate Institute of Technology, Innovation and Intellectual Property Management/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：柯玉佳 Instructor: KO YU-CHIA 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
As the global trend towards sustainable development and a circular economy, green technology innovation has been recognized as a key driver of industry efforts to reduce or eliminate adverse environmental and health impacts. With the main purpose and function of reducing negative environmental impact, the term and notion of "green technology innovation" are often used synonymously with "eco-innovation," "environment-friendly innovation," and "sustainability-oriented innovation;" these terms are thus used interchangeably and cover the core concepts of this course.
This English-taught course covers key knowledge and concepts of green technology innovation and its development and directions. The topics include green technology innovation in industry, its applications in production, processes, products, and services, and radical and systematic eco-innovation. This course also introduces frameworks and tools for developing and assessing green technology innovations, how to make green technology innovation a competitive strategy, and even how to create new business models.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 習得科管與智財相關進階專業知識 (Students will acquire advanced professional knowledge in Technology, Innovation and Intellectual Property Management)
  * B. 理解與辨別社會責任與永續議題 (Students will understand and be able to identify social responsibility and sustainability issues)
  * C. 培養創新思考、分析方法和國際視野 (Students will use innovative thinking skills and analytical methods to enhance professional competence as well as develop a global perspective)
  * D. 專業溝通技能 (Students are able to communicate professionally)
  * E. 團隊合作能力、培養領導技能 (Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The objectives of this course are to:
  * Introduce students to the concepts and theories of green technology innovation.
  * Provide information, frameworks, and tools for identifying and pursuing sustainable business opportunities with green technology innovation.
  * Examine examples of green technology innovators implementing successful green/sustainability strategies.
The teaching and learning of this course involve students in active learning and creative thinking pursuits. Students are expected to obtain the key knowledge and concepts, and learn the applications and practices of green technology innovation through required reading materials, in-class lectures, class participation and discussion, along with team-based term project. This 16+2 week course comprises 14 in-class lectures, a mid-term project presentation, a final term project presentation, plus 2 independent studies. The term project includes a mid-term project presentation, a final term project presentation, and a final project report.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside of class Hours  
1 |  2/19 Course Overview |  Course Syllabus and Policy |  Lecture, video and discussion |  3 |  6  
2 |  2/26 Introduction to Green Technology Innovation | 
  * Ch2, Carrillo-Hermosilla et al. (2009).
  * Schiederig et al. (2012).
|  Lecture, video and discussion |  3 |  6  
3 |  3/5 Development and Directions of Green Technology Innovation | 
  * RME Case: Power in Waves. MIT Sloan.
  * Why Sustainability Is Now the Key Driver of Innovation. HBR. (2009/9).
|  Lecture, video and discussion |  3 |  6  
4 |  3/12 Green Technology Innovation in Industry | 
  * Fuel Cell Case.
  * Green and Competitive: Ending the Stalemate.
|  Lecture, video and discussion |  3 |  6  
5 |  3/19 Field Trip | 
  * 2025 Smart City Summit & Net Zero City Expo
|  - |  9  
6 |  3/26 Green Technology Innovation in Production and Processes | 
  * Intel Case: Implementing sustainable IT strategy.
  * Sustainability-Oriented Innovation: A Bridge to Breakthroughs. MIT Sloan Mgt Review (2015/11).
|  Lecture, video and discussion |  3 |  6  
7 |  4/2 Green Technology Innovation in Products and Services | 
  * Patagonia Case. Berkeley Haas Case. (2016).
  * Sustainability-Oriented Innovation: The More the Merrier. MIT Sloan Mgt Review (2015/11).
|  Lecture, video and discussion |  3 |  6  
8 |  4/9 Green Technology and Open Innovation | 
  * Case: Enel's Innovability Global Open Innovation and Sustainability.
  * Monteiro & Birkinshaw (2017).
|  Lecture, video and discussion |  3 |  6  
9 |  4/16 Mid-Term Projects |  Mid-term Project Progress Presentations |  Group presentations and discussion |  3 |  6  
10 |  4/23 Policy & Regulation on Green Technology Innovation | 
  * BMW Case.
  * Promoting Eco-Innovation: Government Strategies and Policy Initiatives in Ten OECD Countries. OECD (2010).
|  Lecture, video and discussion |  3 |  6  
11 |  4/30 Developing and Assessing Green Technology Innovation | 
  * Case: Wind in the Sails.
  * Ch4, S. Azevedo et al. (2014).
|  Lecture, video and discussion |  3 |  6  
12 |  5/7 Green Technology Innovation and Circular Economy | 
  * First Solar’s Recycling.
  * How Businesses Can Support a Circular Economy. HBR. (2016/2).
|  Lecture, video and discussion |  3 |  6  
13 |  5/14 Green Technology and Eco- Innovative Supply Chain | 
  * IKEA Case.
  * The Sustainable Supply Chain. HBR. (2010/10).
|  Lecture, video and discussion |  3 |  6  
14 |  5/21 No Class |  University Anniversary |  -- |  - |  -  
15 |  5/28 Business Model for Green Technology Innovation | 
  * Cofely Case: The Rise of a New Industry.
  * Kortmann & Piller (2016).
|  Lecture, video and discussion |  3 |  6  
16 |  6/4 Term Project Presentations |  Project Presentations, Course Review and Wrap-up |  Group presentations and discussion |  3 |  6  
17 |  6/11 Independent Study (1) |  Revising Term Projects; Completing and Submitting Final Reports |  9  
18 |  6/18 Independent Study (2) |  Course and Project Reflection |  9  
This syllabus and the schedule are subject to change based on the needs of the class.
-----
  * Teaching Activities  
The in-class lecture of this course contains both lecturing and discussion; therefore, students are required to be prepared and participate in class discussion. Please see the above weekly course schedule for each week's reading assignments and case studies. Students are expected to form into groups for pre-class discussion, and to work on a term project. Each team member should contribute equally to the group, while your contribution will also be evaluated by your team members.
  * Paper/Case presentations  
An article/research paper and a case material will be selected for each week's class. Please refer to the weekly course schedule for the articles and cases; however, they are subject to change with prior announcement. Each student or group (depends on the final number of students taking this course) will be assigned to provide introduction presentations for an article/paper and a case. The time for each presentation is about 15 minutes.
  * Homework  
Each student should individually complete a one-page A4 memorandum (memo) each week for the week's topic and assigned reading materials or case study. You will submit each memo before the class when the topic, reading and case will be discussed. No late memo will be accepted. The memo should be typed, 11- or 12-point font size, double-spaced, with normal margins, pitch, etc. and should not exceed one page.
  * Student Workload Expectation  
This course requires 3 hours of class time each week, while each student should spend 6 hours studying outside of class every week, including preparation and review.
  * Term Project Presentation and Report  
For the term project, students are expected to select a real case in the field of green technology innovation, and conduct a critical study on it. The purpose of this project is for student to explore the applications and practices of green technology innovation. Apart from secondary literature, students are suggested to conduct interviews with companies or organizations to collect data/information for the term project.
The term project includes three segments, including mid-term project presentation, final project presentation, and final project report.
  1. Mid-term Project Progress Presentation  
(Presentation on 4/16/2025; Presentation slides due on tbc.)  
Each group will have 15 minutes to present the progress of their project, followed by 5 minutes Q&A. The presentation is suggested to start with the areas of study (company, product, service, process etc.) and motivation to study on these areas. The group leader should submit the presentation slides by the deadline.  
  2. Final Project Presentation  
(Presentation on 6/4/2025; Presentation slides due on tbc.)  
The team should prepare a 20 minutes presentation to introduce your case and analysis, followed by 10 minutes Q&A. The group leader should submit the presentation slides by the deadline.  
  3. Final Project Report (Due on 6/11/2025 at 23:59)  
Each group is required to submit a written report that contains a cover page. The report should be 20 to 30 pages in length (excluding tables, figures, and references). References should be properly cited. The group leader should submit the report (in Word or PDF format) by the deadline.
-----
Course Policy:
  1. Assignment and Grading:   
- Assignment is due exactly at the prescribed time. NO late assignment is accepted.  
- Any questions regarding the grading of an assignment or report must be raised within one week after the score is made available.  
- All assignments and reports should be your original work/concept.   
- The grading policy will be strictly enforced. NO make-up examination/assignment will be provided.  
- Students are responsible for their own learning and performance. The outcome will be reflected on your final grade. The lecturer is not responsible on any of student's arguments and will not change the grade.
  2. Attendance:  
- The attendance will be recorded in every single class.  
- If you come in class late or leave early, your attendance counts a half only.  
- Student leave (whether casual or sick leave) exceeding 3 classes in the semester will automatically results in FAIL in the final grade. Please follow the university's formal procedure for taking a leave, and notify the instructor by email beforehand or as soon as possible.
  3. Seating: You are required to present your name tent in front of your seat for helping the lecturer record the attendance and in-class performance.
  4. Penalty for cheating and plagiarism will be extremely severe. Use your best judgment. If you are not sure about certain activities, please consult the instructor. Standard academic honesty procedure will be followed, while active cheating and/or plagiarism automatically result in a FAIL in the final grade.
  5. You are expected to come prepared to discuss the assigned readings for every class and responsible for everything discussed in class. Note your attendance and participation counts. You may receive a zero for absence or lack of participation.
  6. Using a laptop, tablet, PC, or mobile/smartphone in this class requires the instructor's permission. 
  7. Pay careful attention to your e-mail correspondence. It reflects your communication skills. Avoid using non-standard English in your e-mail message. In addition, it is recommended to indicate the class name and a brief summary of your question in the e-mail subject. For example, Subject: GTI - A question on homework. Anonymous e-mails will be discarded.
  8. The ringing, beeping, buzzing of mobile phones during class time is extremely rude and disruptive to your fellow students and to the class flow. Please turn all mobile phones off or into silent mode prior to the start of class.
  9. For any disability accommodations needed for the course, please do not hesitate to notify the instructor for assistance.
  10. Information on this syllabus is subject to change with prior announcement. Any updates on the syllabus such as course topic, content or reading materials will be posted on this course's webpage in the NCCU Moodle.
####  其他： Others: Independent Study 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.