國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：女性電影與媒體文化
#####  Course Name: Women's Cinema and Media Culture
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：400856001 Course No.400856001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：傳播院學 Course Department:Communication/B/3 
  * 授課老師：卓庭伍 Instructor: CHO TING-WU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二567 Session: tue14-17 
##  課程簡介Course Description
What is Women’s Cinema? In _Women’s Cinema: The Contested Screen_ , Alison Butler argues that “’Women’s cinema’ is a compex critical, theoreticla and institutional construct, brough into existence by audiences, film-makers, journalists, curators, an academics and maintained only by their continuing interest: a hybrid concept, arisign from a number of overlapping practices and discourses…” (Alison Butler, 2003, 2) 
The course tackles such complex, hybrid, constructed term by not only understanding it as “works made by women” or “films designed for the female audience,” but by learning about the history and social context in which women have engagd with cinema (and media), both as creators and consumers, and consider the complex interplay between production, consumption, and representation in relation to women and film/media texts.
To do so, the course examines women’s roles, rerpesentations, and experiences from early cinema to comtemporary digital culture. Students are introduced to a diverse set of methodologies and theoretical frameworks which will allow them to explore works from films, television, aniem, video games, and other media forms from various cultures, includign Hollywood, East Asia, europe, and Latin America, from the perspectives of film history, auteur, spectatorhsip, genre, feminist criticism, industry, circulation, globalization, and (trans)nationalism. By combining these interdisciplinary apprachese, the course introduces a feminist intevention to the existing paradigms and provides studenst with a thorough grasp of women’s cinema and media culture from its historical origins to its current manifestations.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 資訊處理能力：發現和界定問題、蒐集資料、分析和詮釋、呈現、傳佈和互動
  * B. 媒介能力：掌握不同媒介思維方式，並在不同情境下熟練使用並統整各種語言、傳統／數位工具以完成工作
  * C. 敘事能力：掌握受眾和情境特性，知曉如何吸引觀／聽眾，善於運用、轉換和評估符號，傳達意念，產生感動
  * D. 統合能力：具備透視表象，掌握深層結構和機制之能力，進而理解、評估、協調並統整不同議題觀點與意見
  * E. 創新能力：對社會和傳播環境變化具備敏銳之感知，善於洞察現象之深層結構，具備學習學習（learning to learn）能力，能與時俱變
  * F. 倫理能力： 遵守專業價值和倫理，具備批判思考和反省之能力，行事時知所取捨，有所為有所不為
  * G. 溝通能力：具同理心，善於傾聽與溝通，並能與他人分享見解或資訊
  * H. 實作能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  1. Identify key figures and movements in the history of women’s cinema.
  2. Analyze films and media texts from a feminist perspective, considering the role of gender, genre, and cultural context.
  3. Evaluate the impact of women filmmakers and media creators in world cinema and media culture.
  4. Engage with critical theories and debates surrounding women and film/media in diverse perspectives.
  5. Develop research and presentation skills through class discussion, assignments and a final research project.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Week |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and Homework  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction: What is “Women’s Cinema”? |  | 
  1. Introduction to the course
  2. Course requirements and assignments
Screening:  _The Consequences of Feminism_ (Alice Guy, 1906), 7 min _Suspense_ (Lois Weber, 1913), 10 min _La Souriante Madame Beudet_(Germaine Dulac, 1923), 38 min  
2 |  Female Pioneers: Erased Presences |  a) Mayne, Judith. “The Women at the Keyhole: Women’s Cinema and Feminist Criticism.” New German Critique, no. 23( 1981): 27-43. b) Alison Butler, “Introduction: From Counter-Cinema to Minor Cinema,” in _Women’s Cinema: The Contested Screen_. Wallflower Press, 2003. c) GAINES, JANE M. “WHAT HAPPENED TO WOMEN IN THE SILENT U.S. FILM INDUSTRY?” In  _Pink-Slipped: What Happened to Women in the Silent Film Industries?_ , 16–32. University of Illinois Press, 2018. d) GAINES, JANE M. “MORE FICTIONS: Did Alice Guy Blaché Make La Fée Aux Choux (The Cabbage Fairy)?” In  _Pink-Slipped: What Happened to Women in the Silent Film Industries?_ , 51–70. University of Illinois Press, 2018.  e) Brasch, Ilka. “Detectives, Traces, and Repetition in The Exploits of Elaine.” In  _Film Serials and the American Cinema, 1910-1940: Operational Detection_ , 145–82. Amsterdam University Press, 2018. http://www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctv7xbs29.7. f) BEAN, JENNIFER M. “Introduction: Toward a Feminist Historiography of Early Cinema.” In  _A Feminist Reader in Early Cinema_ , edited by JENNIFER M. BEAN and DIANE NEGRA, 1–26. Duke University Press, 2002.  |  Website: Women Film Pioneers Project https://wfpp.columbia.edu Screening:  _Be Natural: The Untold Story of Alice Guy-Blaché_(Pamela B. Green, 2018) “A History of Silence: Cinema of Lois Weber” (8 min)  
3 |  Women’s Picture: Classic Hollywood and Female Audience | 
  1. Brunsdon, Charlotte. “Pedagogies of the feminine: feminist teaching and women's genres,”  _Screen_ , Volume 32, Issue 4, Winter 1991, Pages 364–381. 
  2. Stacey, Jackie.2 FROM THE MALE GAZE TO THE FEMALE SPECTATOR,  _Star Gazing: Hollywood Cinema and Female Spectatorship_. London and New York: Routledge, 1994.
  3. Mulvey, Laura. “Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema.”  _Screen_ 16.3 (1975): 6-18.
|  Screening:  _The Women_ (George Cukor, 1939), 133 min  
4 |  Women and Modernity: The “Modern Girls” | 
  1. Zhang, Zhen. “Fighting over the Modern Gril” in _An Amorous History of the Silver Screen: Shanghai Cinema, 1896-1937_ , U of Chicago Press, 2005.
  2. Wada-Marciano, Mitsuyo, 'Imaging Modern Girls in the Japanese Woman’s Film',  _Nippon Modern: Japanese Cinema of the 1920s and 1930s_ (Honolulu, HI, 2008; online edn, Hawai'i Scholarship Online, 17 Nov. 2016).
|  Screening:  _Burden of Life_(Heinosuke Gosho, 1936), 66 min (clip) _Woman of Tokyo_(Yasujiro Ozu,1933), 45 min  
5 |  Women and Modernity: Female Community | 
  1. González-López, Irene, and Hide Murakawa. ""Film Director Tanaka Kinuyo": The Challenges of Female Authorship."  _JCMS: Journal of Cinema and Media Studies_ 62, no. 4 (2023): 130-154.
  2. González-López, Irene, and Ashida Mayu. “The First Female Gaze at Post-War Japanese Women: Tanaka Kinuyo, Film Director.” In  _Tanaka Kinuyo: Nation, Stardom and Female Subjectivity_ , edited by Irene González-López and Michael Smith, 104–25. Edinburgh University Press, 2018. 
  3. Kanno, Yuka. “Panpan Girls, Lesbians and Post-War Women’s Communities: Girls of Dark (1961) as Women’s Cinema.” In  _Tanaka Kinuyo: Nation, Stardom and Female Subjectivity_ , edited by Irene González-López and Michael Smith, 187–203. Edinburgh University Press, 2018. 
|  Screening:  _Girls of Dark_ /_Girls of the Night_ (Kinuyo Tanaka, 1961)  
6 |  Women and Modernity: From _Shojo_ to _Yuri_ | 
  1. SHAMOON, DEBORAH. “Revolutionary Romance: ‘The Rose of Versailles’ and the Transformation of Shojo Manga.”  _Mechademia_ 2 (2007): 3–17.
  2. Saito K. Magic, Shōjo, and Metamorphosis: Magical Girl Anime and the Challenges of Changing Gender Identities in Japanese Society.  _The Journal of Asian Studies_. 2014;73(1):143-164. doi:10.1017/S0021911813001708
  3. Glenhaber, Mehitabel, An Inner Revolution og The Japanese Women”: The Rose of Versailles as feminist historical fiction.” https://www.animefeminist.com/an-inner-revolution-of-the-japanese-women-the-rose-of-versailles-as-feminist-historical-fiction/
  4. TOKU, MASAMI. “Shojo Manga! Girls’ Comics! A Mirror of Girls’ Dreams.”  _Mechademia_ 2 (2007): 19–32.
|  Screening:  _Sailor Moon S5 ep14 (ep180) “Calling of the Shining Stars: Enter Haruka and Michiru_ ,” 25 min (clip) _The Rose of Versailles_ Movie or Anime Series ep1  
7 |  Body and Genre: Melodrama’s Global Appeal | 
  1. Williams, Linda. “Melodrama Revised.” _Refiguring American Film Genres_ , 42-88. 
  2. Kelleter, Frank; Mayer, Ruth (2007):"The Melodramatic Mode Revisited: An Introduction." _Melodrama! The Mode of Excess from Early America to Hollywood_. Eds. Kelleter, Frank; Krah, Barbara; Mayer, Ruth. Heidelberg: Universitätsverlag Winter. 7-17. American Studies – A Monograph Series 145.
  3. Yuan, Yin. “Third-Space K-Drama: Netflix, Hallyu, and the Melodramatic Mundane.” International Journal of Communication [Online] 17 (2023): 6990+. Gale Academic OneFile (acessed November 16, 2024)
|  Screening:  _TBA_  
8 |  Body and Genre: Exploitation | 
  1. Williams, Linda. “Film Bodies: Gender, Genre, and Excess.”  _Film Quarterly_ 44, no. 4 (1991): 2–13. https://doi.org/10.2307/1212758.
  2. Alexandra Heller-Nicholas, “The Rape-Revenge Film Canon” in Rape _-_ Revenge Films: A Critical Study,
|  Screening:  _Lady Snowblood_ (Fujita Toshiya, 1973), _Female Prisoner #701_ (Ito Shunya, 1972), clip _Revenge_ (Coralie Fargeat, 2017), 108 min  
9 |  Body and Genre : From Abject to Monstrous Feminine | 
  1. Creed, Barbara, “Alien and the Monstrous-Feminine,” in _The Gendered Cyborg_ , Routledge, 2000.
  2. KRISTEVA, JULIA, and Leon S. Roudiez.”POWERS OF HORROR.” In Powers of Horror: An Essay on Abjection, 213-16. Columbia University Press, 2024.
  3. Creed, Barbara, “Vampires, Feminism & Ethnicity: A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night,” in Return of the Monstrous-Feminine: Feminist New Wave Cinema, Routledge, 2022.
|  Screening:  _Rosemary’s Baby_(Roman Polanski, 1968) _Alien_(Ridley Scott, 1979) _Jennifer’s Body_(Karyn Kusama, 2009) _Teeth_(Mitchell Lichtenstein, 2007) _A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night (Ana Lily Amirpour)_ _TBA_  
10 |  Body and Genre: Time, Space, and Subjectivity  | 
  1. INCE, KATE. “Feminist Phenomenology and the Film World of Agnès Varda.”  _Hypatia_ 28, no. 3 (2013): 602–17.
  2. Hayward, Susan. “Beyond the Gaze and into Femme-Filmécriture: Agnès Varda’s Sans Toit Ni Loi.”  _French Film: Texts and Contexts_ , 2nd ed., Routledge, 2006, pp. 269–280.
  3. DePaul, B. A.. “Temporality, Spatiality and Looking in Chantal Akerman's Jeanne Dielman, 23 Quai du Commerce, 1080 Bruxelles (1975) and Agnès Varda's Cléo from 5 to 7 (1962).” (2018).
|  Screening:  _Vagabond_ (Agnès Varda, 1985), 105 min  
11 |  Posthuman: Cyborgs to Technosexuality—a Male Fantasy? | 
  1. HARAWAY, Donna. “A Cyborg Manifesto: Science, Technology and Socialist-Feminism in the Late Twentieth Century.” In _Simians, Cyborgs and Women: The Reinvention of Nature_. Routledge.
  2. Saaranen, Linnéa. (2020). The Perfect Woman: Scarlett Johansson as a cyborg in 'Under the Skin' (2013), 'Her' (2013) and 'Ghost in the Shell' (2017).
  3. Carl Silvio. “Refiguring the Radical Cyborg in Mamoru Oshii’s ‘Ghost in the Shell.’”  _Science Fiction Studies_ 26, no. 1 (1999): 54–72.
  4. Molloy, Missy, 'From Cyborg Theory to Posthuman Mothers',  _Screening the Posthuman_ (New York, 2023; online edn, Oxford Academic, 22 June 2023.
  5. Nilima Chaudhary, “Rewriting Femborgian Narratives: Transgression and Subversion of the Female Cyborg in Her and Ex Machina,” Rupkatha Journal, vol. 16, Issue 1, 2024.
  6. Genevieve Liveley, “Changing the Story of Human-Machine Relationships,” Digital Societies, January 25, 2020.
https://reurl.cc/yD13Ay |  Screening: _Ghost in the Shell_(Mamoru Oshii, 1995) _Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence_ (Mamoru Oshii, 2004) _Ghost in the Shell_ (Rupert Sanders, 2017) _Her_(Spike Jonze, 2013) _Ex Machina_(Alexander Medawar, 2015) _Blade Runner_ 2049 (Denis Villeneuve, 2017)  
12 |  Feminist Geopolitics and the Global Flow: International Festivals and the Transnational Address | 
  1. WHITE, PATRICIA. “TO EACH HER OWN CINEMA.: World Cinema and the Woman Cineaste.” In  _Women’s Cinema, World Cinema: Projecting Contemporary Feminisms_ , 29–67. Duke University Press, 2015.
  2. WHITE, PATRICIA. “IS THE WHOLE WORLD WATCHING?: Fictions of Women’s Human Rights.” In  _Women’s Cinema, World Cinema: Projecting Contemporary Feminisms_ , 169–98. Duke University Press, 2015.
  3. Sarah Barrow. (2016) Constraints and possibilities: Lima Film Festival, politics and cultural formation in Peru.  _New Review of Film and Television Studies_ 14:1, pages 132-148.
|  Screening:  _Madeinusa_(Claudia Llosa, 2006) _Milk of Sorrow_ (Claudia Llosa, 2009), clip  
13 |  Witches and Games: Women’s Experimental Cinema | 
  1. Keller, Sarah. “Done and Undone: Meshes of the Afternoon and Witch’s Cradle.” In  _Maya Deren: Incomplete Control_ , 31–80. Columbia University Press, 2015.
  2. WEES. William C. “Peggy’s Playhouse: Contesting the Modernist Paradigm.” In Women’s Experimental Cinema: Critical Frameworks. Ed. Robin Blaetz, Duke University Press, 2007.
  3. “Love and Theft: Peggy Ahwesh and Sondera Perry Play Video Games.” Eai.org. https://reurl.cc/6jVz3b
  4. Brown, W. (2015) ‘Destroy Visual Pleasure: Cinema, Attention, and the Digital Female Body (Or, Angelina Jolie Is a Cyborg)’, in A. Backman Rogers and L. Mulvey (eds) _Feminisms_. Netherlands: Amsterdam University Press.
|  Screening:  _Meshes of the Afternoon_(Maya Deren, 1943), 14 min. _Witch’s Cradle_ (Maya Deren, 1943), 13 min. _She Puppet_ (Peggy Ahwesh, 2001), 15 min.  
14 |  Witches and Games: Gamer Trouble | 
  1. Phillips, Amanda. “Of Dickwolves and Killjoys: Feminism and Interpretative Violence in Gaming Communities.” In  _Gamer Trouble: Feminist Confrontations in Digital Culture_ , 27–65. NYU Press, 2020.
  2. Phillips, Amanda. “Gender, Power, and the Gamic Gaze: Re-Viewing Portal and Bayonetta.” In  _Gamer Trouble: Feminist Confrontations in Digital Culture_ , 99–136. NYU Press, 2020. 
|  Screening:  _CTFO_ (Shannon Sun-Higginson, 2015), 76 min  
15 |  Presentation of Research Project |  5-10 min presentation of the final research project. |   
16 |  Presentation of Research Project |  5-10 min presentation of the final research project. |   
17 |  |  |   
18 |  |  |   
####  其他： Others: 研究報告 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.