國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際形象與國際溝通 
#####  Course Name: International Images and Global Communication
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：461941001 Course No.461941001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國傳碩一、國傳碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in International Communication Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：康庭瑜 Instructor: KANG TING-YU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一567 Session: mon14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
Part I of this course offers an in-depth discussion of theories of images and constructed reality. Part II examines theories in an international context. It highlights the cases of China and Islam and examines/problematizes their images in the Western world. Part III discusses the ways in which theories of international image construction could be utilized in urban, regional, and national development. It includes two case studies where branding nations, regions, and cities become central in promoting tourism and wider economic advancement.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 跨文化傳播能力Cross-cultural Communication
  * B. 組織管理能力Organization & Management
  * C. 區域研究能力Regional Studies
  * D. 基礎研究能力Research Foundations
  * E. 表達與實踐能力Communication & Execution
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course aims to examine how images are constructed, received, and utilized in an international context. Upon completing the course, students will be familiar with theories of images, stereotypes, and constructed reality. They will also be trained to apply such theories to concrete cases in various scenarios, including businesses, social enterprises, and governments at all levels. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 11 週 Week 11 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
1. |  2/17 |  Introduction |  No readings  
---|---|---|---  
2. |  2/24 |  A constructivist approach: images as stereotypes |  Pickering, Michael. 2001. Stereotyping: The Politics of Representation. New York: Palgrave. (Chapter 1,2)  
3. |  3/3 |  Orientalism  |  Said, Edward W. 1978. Orientalism. New York: Penguin Paperbacks. (Chapter 1: I,II,III)  
4. |  3/10 |  Occidentalism  |  Buruma, Ian and Margalit, Avishai. 2004. Occidentalism: The West in the Eyes of Its Enemies. London: Penguin. (Chapter 1,2,3)  
5. |  3/17 |  Research proposal session |   
6. |  3/24 |  China in Western imagination | 
  1. Pan, Chengxin (2004) ‘The "China Threat" in American self-imagination: the discursive construction of Other as power politics’, _Alternatives: Global, Local, Political_ 29(3): 305-331.
  2. Ho, P. (2003) ‘Performing the “Oriental”: professionals and the Asian model minority myth’, _Journal of Asian American Studies_ , 6(2), 149-175.
  3. Allison, Graham. "China vs. America: Managing the next clash of civilizations."  _Foreign Affairs_ 96.5 (2017): 80-89.
7. |  3/31 |  The West in Chinese imagination | 
  1. Liu, Yang, and Fred Dervin. "Racial marker, transnational capital, and the Occidental Other: White Americans’ experiences of whiteness on the Chinese mainland."  _Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies_ (2020): 1-18.
  2. Camenisch, Aldina. "Middling whiteness: The shifting positionalities of Europeans in China."  _Ethnicities_ (2022): 14687968211058014.
8. |  4/7 |  Representing birth tourism: conflicting views  | 
  1. Wang, Sean (2017) “Fetal Citizens? Birthright Citizenship, Reproductive Futurism, and the Panic over Chinese Birth Tourism in Southern California”, Environment and Planning D: Society and Space 35 (2), 263-280.
  2. Harrington, John (2005) “Citizenship and the Biopolitics of Post-Nationalist Ireland”, Journal of Law and Society, Vol. 32, No. 3 (Sep., 2005), pp. 424-449.
9. |  4/14 |  Guest speaker Women, sexualities and visuality |   
10. |  4/21 |  Inter-racial image construction: a gender perspective (I) | 
  1. Silvestrini, M. (2020). “It’s not something I can shake”: The effect of racial stereotypes, beauty standards, and sexual racism on interracial attraction.  _Sexuality & Culture_,  _24_(1), 305-325.
  2. Darling-Wolf, Fabienne (2004) “Sites of attractiveness: Japanese women and westernized representations of feminine beauty”, Critical Studies in Media Communication 21(4): 325-345.
  3. Louie, K. (2014). Chinese masculinity studies in the twenty-first century: Westernizing, Easternizing and globalizing wen and wu. NORMA, 9(1), 18–29. 
11. |  4/28 |  Inter-racial image construction: a gender perspective (II) | 
  1. Rao, Rahul (2014) 'The locations of homophobia.' London Review of International Law 2 (2): 169-199.
  2. Al-Wazedi, U. (2020). "Postcolonial feminism." Companion to feminist studies 155-173
  3. Odeh, L. A. (1993). Post-Colonial Feminism and the Veil: Thinking the Difference. Feminist Review, 43(1), 26-37. 
12. |  5/5 |  Branding cities, regions, and nations |  Anholt, S. (2007) Competitive Identity: The New Brand Management for Nations, Cities and Regions. [Electronic resource] Houndmills, Basingtoke, Hampshire: Palgrave Macmillan. (Chapter 1,2,3,4)  
13. |  5/12 |  Case study: UNESCO Creative Cities | 
  1. Pratt, A. (2018). Gentrification, artists and the cultural economy. In  _Handbook of gentrification studies_. Edward Elgar Publishing.
  2. Bolognani, Marta (2012) “Good culture, bad culture……no culture! The implications of culture in urban regeneration in Bradford, UK”, Critical Social Policy 32(4): 618-635.
14. |  5/19 |  Guest speaker: Using political advertising to analyse party change in Taiwan |   
15. |  5/26 |  End of term presentation |   
16. |  6/2 |  End of term presentation |   
17. |  6/9 |  Write-up and submission |   
18. |  6/16 |  Write-up and submission |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.