國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：政治傳播專題
#####  Course Name: Political Communication
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：461903001 Course No.461903001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國傳碩一、國傳碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in International Communication Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：劉義鈞 Instructor: LIU YIH-JIUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
The objectives of this course are to:
  1. explore the roles of mass media in Postmodern Democracy,
  2. analyze how political actors compete over the news media,
  3. examine the influence of mass media upon the formation of public opinion,
  4. comprehend the agenda-setting and image-setting functions of mass media in election campaigns,
  5. understand the strategic uses of polling in election campaigns,
  6. analyze the content of political ads in Taiwan’s major political campaigns.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 基礎研究能力Research Foundations
  * B. 表達與實踐能力Communication & Execution
  * C. 組織管理能力Organization & Management
  * D. 區域研究能力Regional Studies
  * E. 跨文化傳播能力Cross-cultural Communication
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The objectives of this course are to:
  1. explore the roles of mass media in Postmodern Democracy,
  2. analyze how political actors compete over the news media,
  3. examine the influence of mass media upon the formation of public opinion,
  4. comprehend the agenda-setting and image-setting functions of mass media in election campaigns,
  5. understand the strategic uses of polling in election campaigns,
  6. analyze the content of political ads in Taiwan’s major political campaigns.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
1 st Week 
Course introduction (I):
Part 1: the roles of mass media in Postmodern Democracy
Part 2: how political actors compete over the news media
Part 3: the agenda-setting and image-setting functions of mass media in 
election campaigns 
2 nd Week
Course introduction (II):
Part 4: comprehend the agenda-setting and image-setting functions of mass 
media in election campaigns
Part 5: the strategic uses of polling in election campaigns
Part 6: case study of political ads in Taiwan’s major political campaigns
3 rd Week
Political actors compete over the new media
Political power and power over the media
Political control and media independence
  1. Duncan Watts (1997), _Political Communication Today_
Chapter 11: The media and democracy. Pp.197-209
  1. Gadi Wolfsfeld (2011), _Making Sense of Media & Politics: Five Principles in Political Communication_
Chapter 1 & 2: Pp.1-44
4 th Week
Turning political into news
No such things as objective news
Telling a good story
  1. Gadi Wolfsfeld (2011), _Making Sense of Media & Politics: Five Principles in Political Communication_
Chapter 3 & 4: Pp.45-94
5 th Week
The media get you when you’re not paying attention
  1. Gadi Wolfsfeld (2011), _Making Sense of Media & Politics: Five Principles in Political Communication_
Chapter 5: Pp.95-118
6 th Week
Mediatization and de-centralization of political communication
  1. Kees Brants and Katrin Voltmer (2011), _Political Communication in Postmodern Democracy_
Chapter 1: Pp.1-18
7 th Week
New approaches to political communication
Audience democracy: An emerging pattern in postmodern political 
communication
Representation and mediated politics: Representing representation in an age of 
irony
  1. Kees Brants and Katrin Voltmer (2011), _Political Communication in Postmodern Democracy_
Chapter 2 & 3: Pp.19-56
8 th Week
No class at the festival
9 th Week
Mid-term exam
10 th Week
Mediatization: The changing power game between politics and the media
  1. Kees Brants and Katrin Voltmer (2011), _Political Communication in Postmodern Democracy_
Chapter 4: Pp.59-74
11 th Week
De-centralization: New forms of citizenship and political communication 
Political consumerism as political participation
  1. Kees Brants and Katrin Voltmer (2011), _Political Communication in Postmodern Democracy_
Chapter 10: Pp.167-182
12 th Week
The media and social control 
Media influence upon the formation of public opinion
The triangle of the attentive public, the political actors, and the media
  1. Glasser & et.al. (1995), _Public opinion and the communication of consent_
Chapter 2: Public opinion and rationality. Pp.33-54
Chapter 9: Social-psychological perspectives on public opinion. Pp.177-216
Chapter 13: Origins and consequences of mediated public opinion. Pp.323-347
13 th Week
The agenda-setting functions of the media
The influence of media on issue attributes
The influence of media on candidate images
  1. McCombs, M (2004), _Setting the Agenda_
Chapter 4: Why agenda-setting occurs. Pp.53-67
Chapter 5: The pictures in our heads. Pp.68-85
Chapter 6: Attribute agenda-setting and framing. Pp.86-97
Chapter 7: Shaping the media agenda. Pp.98-118
Chapter 8: Consequences of agenda-setting. Pp.119-133
14 th Week
The components of candidate images
The formation of candidate images
The assessment of candidate images
  1. Hacker K. L. (2004), _Presidential Candidate Images_
Introduction: The continued importance of the candidate image construct. Pp.1-20
Chapter 1: Campaigns and candidate images in American presidential Elections. Pp.21-48
Chapter 4: The “authentic candidate”: Extending candidate image Assessment. Pp.85-104
Chapter 5: A dual-processing perspective of candidate images formation. Pp.105-132
15 th Week
The impact of political polling on voters
The functions of political polling in election campaign
The strategic use of presidential polling
  1. Robert V. Friedenberg (1997), _Communication Consultants in Political Communication_
Chapter 2: Polling consultants: the intelligence service of the ballot wars. Pp.31-68
  2. Robert M. Eisinger (2003), _The Evolution of Presidential Polling_
Chapter 1: seeking autonomy: The origins and growth of presidential polling. Pp.1-20
Chapter 2: Planting the seeds of presidential polling. Pp.21-34
16 th Week
The content of political advertising: issue vs. image, negative vs. positive
The effects of political advertising on voters
The effects of political advertising on candidate images
  1. Kaid L.L. & Johnston A. (2001), _Videostyle in Presidential Campaigns: Style and Content of Televised Political Advertising_
Chapter 1: Presidential campaign advertising on television. Pp.1-11
Chapter 2: Political advertising content and effects. Pp.13-24
  2. Hacker K.L. (2004),_Presidential Candidate Images_
Chapter 6: The effects of political advertising. Pp.83-98
  3. Lynda Lee Kaid (2004), _Handbook of Political Communication Research_
Chapter 7: Political advertising. Pp.155-202
17 th Week
Completion of designated after-course assignment or work
18 th Week
Completion of designated after-course assignment or work
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.