國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：高等量化傳播研究方法
#####  Course Name: Advanced Quantitative Communication Research Methods
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：463884001 Course No.463884001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：傳播博一、傳播博二 Course Department:Ph.D Program in Communication/D/1&2 
  * 授課老師：陳憶寧、羅文輝 Instructor: CHEN YI-NING/LO VEN-HWEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This advanced course in communication research methods aims to introduce students to multivariate analysis, focusing on the practical application of various statistical tests. The course emphasizes understanding the concepts and principles that underpin these analytical techniques.
Through years of teaching research methods and statistics, we have found that the most effective way to teach multivariate data analysis is by providing students with real-world data and guiding them to manipulate variables using various techniques. While this is not a pure statistics course, students are expected to have a basic understanding of elementary statistics and SPSS operations before enrolling.
The course is divided into three parts. The first part introduces the theory and underlying logic of multivariate methods. The second part focuses on specific techniques, including multiple regression, logistic regression, factor analysis, and discriminant analysis. The third part covers advanced topics such as path analysis and structural equation modeling.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 瞭解傳播學理論、文獻與相關學術發展
  * B. 創新、獨立思辨與探析問題的能力
  * C. 精研、判讀與充分掌握傳播專業知識
  * D. 傳播教研與實踐的能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
At the end of this semester students will learn to do the following:
  1. Understand the concepts and techniques of multivariate data analysis
  2. Determine which multivariate technique is appropriate for a specific research problem
  3. Use SPSS to perform various statistical tests
  4. Perform and interpret various multivariate data analyses including scale construction, factor analysis, multiple regression, discriminant analysis, logistic regression, path analysis, mediation/moderation analyses, and structural equation modeling
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
18週18 weeks | 無彈性補充教學週No flexible supplemental instruction week  
Weekly Schedule
Week 1 (2-18), Introduction to Multivariate Analysis and Summated Rating Scale Construction 
Readings:
  1. Spector 1992
  2. Ho, 2013, Chapter 13
_Food for thought_
  1. Why study multivariate data analysis?
  2. What is summated rating scale?
  3. How to construct a summated rating scale? 
  4. How to perform item analysis? 
  5. How to interpret SPSS printout? 
# Week 2 (2-25), Factor Analysis I
Readings:
  1. Hair et al., 2010, Chapter 3
  2. Ho, 2013, Chapter 12
_Food for thought_
  1. What are the objectives of factor analysis?
  2. What are the differences between common factor analysis and principal component analysis? 
  3. How to derive factors and assess overall fit? 
  4. What is rotation of factors and why is it important for factor analysis?
Week 3 (3-4), Factor Analysis II
Readings:
  1. Lo, So, & Zhang, 2010
  2. Wei & Lo, 2006
_Food for thought_
  1. How to interpret the factors?
  2. How to use factor analysis to create a summated rating scale?
  3. How to use SPSS to run factor analysis? 
  4. How to design a factor analysis? 
  5. How to interpret SPSS printout? 
Presentation #1
Week 4 (3-11), Final Project Preparation
Week 5 (3-18), Partial Correlation and Multiple Regression I
Readings:
  1. Hair et al., 2010, Chapter 4
  2. Ho, 2013, Chapter 14
_Food for thought_
  1. What is partial correlation?
  2. How to compute partial correlations?
  3. What is multiple regression? 
  4. How to create dummy variables in regression analysis? 
  5. How to determine the relative importance of independent variables in predicting dependent variable? 
Week 6 (3-25), Partial Correlation and Multiple Regression II
Readings:
  1. Lo & Wei, 2002
  2. Wei, Lo, Chen, Tandoc, & Zhang, 2020
_Food for thought_
  1. What are the major types of multiple regression?
  2. What is standard multiple regression?
  3. What is hierarchical multiple regression? 
  4. What is stepwise multiple regression?
  5. How to choose among regression strategies?
  6. What is multicollinearity?
  7. How to deal with multicollinearity?
  8. How to interpret SPSS printout? 
Presentation #2
Week 7 (4-1), Logistic Regression I
Readings:
  1. Hair et al., 2010, Chapter 7
  2. Leech, 2014, Chapter 7
_Food for thought_
  1. What is logistic regression?
  2. What are the objectives of logistic regression?
  3. How to calculate and interpret odds ratio? 
  4. How to calculate and interpret logistic regression coefficients?
  5. How to design a simple logistic regression model?
Week 8 (4-8), Logistic Regression II
Readings:
  1. Cohen & Tsfati, 2009
  2. Tenenboim-Weinblatt & Neiger, (2014).
_Food for thought_
  1. How to design a multiple logistic regression model?
  2. How to assess the goodness of fit of the logistic regression model? 
  3. How to interpret the results of logistic regression? 
  4. How to interpret SPSS printout?
Presentation #3
Week 9 (4-15), Mid-term Examination
Week 10 (4-22), Path Analysis and the Logic of Causal Order
Readings:
  1. Hayes (2017), Chap 4
  2. Jose (2013), Chapter 3
  3. Lo, Wei & Lu (2017)
_Food for thought_
  1. What is path analysis?
  2. What are the causal rules in path analysis?
  3. How to estimate the direct, indirect and total effects? 
  4. How to construct a path diagram?
  5. How to perform path analysis? 
  6. How to interpret SPSS printout?
Week 11 (4-29), Mediation and Moderation Analyses
Reading: 
  1. Hayes (2017), Chap 7
  2. Jose (2013), Chapter 5
  3. Wei, Lo, & Zhu, 2019
_Food for thought_
  1. What is the difference between mediation analysis and moderation analysis?
  2. How to perform a mediation analysis? 
  3. How to perform a moderation analysis? 
  4. How to interpret the results?
Presentation #4
Week 12 (5-6), Structural Equation Modeling I
Readings
  1. Hair et al., 2010, Chapter 11
  2. Ho, 2013, Chapter 15
_Food for thought_
  1. What is structural equation modeling?
  2. What is the difference between a measurement model and a structural model? 
  3. What are the differences between exogenous variables and endogenous variables? 
  4. What is role of theory in structural modeling?
  5. How to develop and specify a measurement model?
  6. How to develop and specify a structural model?
  7. How to assess the model validity?
Week 13 (5-13), Structural Equation Modeling II (SEM workshop)
Readings:
  1. Collier, 2020, Chaps 3 & 4
  2. Lo, Wei & Lu, 2017
_Food for thought_
  1. How to design a structural equation model?
  2. How to draw a path diagram with AMOS graphics? 
  3. How to test structural equation models with AMOS?
  4. How to assess the hypothesized model?
  5. How to interpret AMOS output?
Week 14 (5-20), University Anniversary Celebration: No Classes Scheduled.
Week 15 (5-27), Structural Equation Modeling III (SEM Guest lecture)
To be arranged
Week 16 (6-3), Discriminant Analysis I
Readings:
  1. Hair et al., 2010, Chapter 7
  2. Leech, 2014, Chapter 7
  3. Lin 2006
_Food for thought_
  1. What is discriminant analysis?
  2. What is the difference between discriminant analysis and logistic regression? 
  3. How to calculate and interpret the discriminant functions? 
  4. How to assess model fit? 
  5. How to interpret the results of discriminant analysis? 
  6. How to interpret SPSS printout?
Presentation #5
Week 17 (6-10), Final Examination
Week 18 (6-17), Final Project Preparation
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.