國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：英語口語訓練（二）：口語訓練與閱讀
#####  Course Name: English Oral Training (II) : Oral Training & Reading
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：501058001 Course No.501058001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文一甲、英文一乙 Course Department:English/B/1 
  * 授課老師：羅狼仁 Instructor: PHILLIPS BRIAN-DAVID 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
ENGLISH ORAL COMMUNICATION AND READING (TWO) is a continuation in classroom   
instruction and experience in oral communication skills, particularly those related to public presentation, group discussion, and more. According to the English Department’s EFL Committee Mission Statement, the goal for students in this course is that they should demonstrate reasonable fluency and pronunciation in standard English. Ability to participate comfortably in general conversation is determined by: Comprehending and responding appropriately, Initiating, continuing, and ending a conversation, Interacting with cultural awareness, Improvising in new situations, Using grammar flexibly, Seeking and providing information in an organized manner, and Narrating an event. The course approaches communication, comprehension, fluency, improvisational language structures, and communication theory. The course will use a great deal of culture-specific materials, such as videos and critical thinking/communication exercises.  
This course will include the planning and creation of an ongoing web-media program to simulate radio and television magazine programs. Interviewing and reporting skills will be a focus.  
This semester’s curriculum incorporates a very strong New Media program in which students will plan, write, produce, perform, record, and publish videos various types intended for the Department’s student Youtube channel. Students in the Oral Communication and Reading course serve as staff for the SPARKSHOW program for the English Department. As part of this aspect of the oral training program, students will learn approaches to journalistic tasks within the context of language learning activities. Speeches and/or presentations will be recorded to video for inclusion in Sparkshow. Students will create videos for the SPARKSHOW Youtube channel as part of the oral engagement program.  
Students will be required to setup an AI English Study Buddy program (you will be taught the principles of doing this; most AI programs have a free tier you can use on PC and/or mobile). You will be asked to practice your English skills with the AI Buddy outside of class as well as complete certain classroom assignments with the AI Buddy.  
This semester, we may include a special section on the use of Virtual Reality in communication, narrative form, and media-based discourse construction (pandemic willing).  
Depending upon student feedback, we may incorporate a form of a teaching approach known as GAMIFICATION as well as GAMIZATION, using fantasy card, board, and tabletop games in contexts adapted to the language learning classroom. We would follow a sequence of activities ranging from conversational fantasy card games up through student generated sessions of tabletop roleplaying games such as the AWFULLY CHEERFUL ENGINE (ACE RPG). TRPG may be a component of in-class interaction. If/when we are holding class online due to pandemic prevention protocols, we use Discord and Owlbear Rodeo for Virtual Table Top (VTT) sessions. We may also use particular card and board games (again, based upon student feedback).  
This course is taught in English in an English environment only. Please note students from outside the English Department who have not taken the prerequisite courses must be able to understand English to an appropriate level for this course.  
Obviously, whether we meet in person or online due to pandemic response protocols or other factors will affect some of our course content. Also, obviously, for in-person classes, students must scan the QR code when required (in addition to answering roll call as they are different procedures) and wear a mask while observing social distancing.  
人工智慧政策 Policy on Artificial Intelligence
The English Department at National Chengchi University is embarking on an innovative journey to integrate Artificial Intelligence (AI) into our English Language, Literature, TESOL, and Linguistics studies. This integration aligns with our educational goals, aiming to enhance the depth and breadth of our academic offerings. AI technologies, such as natural language processing tools and machine learning algorithms, will provide unique opportunities for personalized language learning, advanced literary analysis, in-depth linguistic research, and other academic pursuits.
Our vision is to leverage these AI tools to create a more dynamic, interactive, and effective learning environment. For example, AI can offer students tailored language exercises based on their proficiency levels or analyze complex literary texts, offering insights that might not be immediately apparent. In linguistics, AI can process large datasets, revealing patterns and trends that inform linguistic theories.
As per English Department policy, individual course instructors are free to set their own policies regulating the use of generative AI tools in their courses, including allowing or disallowing some or all uses of such tools. Course instructors should set such policies in their course syllabi and clearly communicate such policies to students. Students who are unsure of policies regarding generative AI tools are encouraged to ask their instructors for clarification. However, if such policies are not set for a course or particular assignment, the standard approach is as follows.
To give sufficient space for instructors to explore uses of generative AI tools in their courses, and to set clear guidelines to students about what uses are and are not consistent with our department’s policy on academic integrity, the following policy statement is adopted regarding generative AI in the context of coursework.
Absent a clear statement from a course instructor, use of or consultation with generative AI shall be treated analogously to assistance from another person. As you would not ask another person to do your assignments or take your tests for you, you should not ask AI to do your work in a similar manner. In particular, using generative AI tools to substantially complete an assignment or exam (e.g. by entering exam or assignment questions) is not permitted. Students should acknowledge the use of generative AI (other than incidental use) and default to disclosing such assistance when in doubt.
In THIS COURSE, some assignments may explicitly call for the use of AI tools. However, absent such explicit instruction, AI should either not be used or should be used as stated above. In the final revision of their assignments, students should acknowledge any use of AI and state how the technology was used (MLA, APA, Chicago, and other style books now have guides for such acknowledgment).  
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 掌握西方文學與文化發展的歷史文化脈絡，以熟悉不同文化觀點(To trace the historical and cultural transformations in Western literature in order to understand different cultural perspectives)
  * B. 具備西方文學與文化研究之相關知能以培養獨立思考與批判之能力(To acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for doing research on Western literature and culture in order to develop independent and critical judgment.)
  * C. 具備語言學的基礎專業知識，以培養觀察分析及推理能力(To acquire a basic knowledge of linguistics in order to foster the ability to make logical conclusions through observation and analysis)
  * D. 具備應用語言學及英語教學的基礎專業知識及實務應用能力 (To acquire knowledge of applied linguistics in order to make practical applications to methods of teaching English.)
  * E. 理解、分析及整合英文訊息並以口說英文充分表達自我與協調溝通 (To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.)
  * F. 解讀、分析及整合英文篇章並書寫不同主題及目的英文文章以表達自我並呈現個人思維邏輯(To understand, analyze, and synthesize articles in English and to write English papers on different topics and for different purposes to fully express oneself and to reason in written English.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
課程目標 Course Objectives  
Oral Training Goals: The goal of this semester is to continue to develop competence in using English to present information in informal and formal settings. Students must be able to organize and deliver formal and informal presentations in front of an audience. They should be able to quickly organize an informal presentation when asked to share thoughts, information, or opinions on the spot. When given time to prepare, they should be able to make organized and effective presentations that include the use of visual aids that meet the required guidelines for informative and persuasive speeches.  
Reading Goals: The general goal of the course is to improve the students’ ability to converse on subjects in a variety of content areas. Students may also acquire specific knowledge on the hows and whys of constructing specific types of speeches or participate in discussions. The reading component should focus on articles in these and other related subject areas and on readings from speech and communication textbooks. Authentic materials intended for native English speakers will be adopted as the major source of material for student readings.  
學習成效 Specific Learning Outcomes  
This course employs the following: Conversation Blueprints, Improvisational Language Structures,   
Interactive Drama Role Plays, Storytelling, Tabletop Pole Play, Gamification, Panel and Group Discussion, among others. In addition to oral training components, the course has reading components with appropriate assignments to focus on skill sets as outlined in the English Department's program guidelines. Student skill progress will be assessed in general as to how they perform the goal skills within these various activity metrics – particularly in individual speechmaking, discussion-based activities, and communication projects while communication theory and related concepts will be evaluated via exams, quizzes, and performance. As per the oral training guidelines, students will develop and improve the following specific skillsets:  
• Further development of social skills  
• Group discussions of the reading articles  
• Skills for group dynamics, group decision making, and group leadership  
• Presentations of opinions concerning the reading materials  
• Informal and formal speech making  
• Critical thinking skills  
• Expanding and developing vocabulary  
Students should prepare an online drive (Google Drive is suggested) to upload to in order submit periodically class video assignments and other homework on it.  
Course Content and Core Ability Items  
How the Course Content relates to the Core Ability Items:  
To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.  
• To actively and efficiently express an opinion or to discuss a specialized subject for at least ten minutes - students will be asked to research a number of topics as the fodder for various speaking assignments. These will afford students the opportunity to practice expressing opinions based upon critical ideas. Assessment will determine how well students retain comprehension of the material.  
• To make few mistakes in grammar, vocabulary or pronunciation and to converse fluently – obviously, speaking assignments and speeches will afford students the opportunity to express themselves. Conversation activities will afford students the opportunity to practice and improve within a Communicative Language Learning model.   
Assessment will determine how well students retain comprehension of the material.  
• To understand the expressions used different occasions, including daily conversation, broadcasting, speeches, etc. – as part of their instruction in the content of the course, the students will become more aware of register and role as well as be afforded practice opportunities – particularly for formal and semi-formal contexts. Assessment will determine how well students retain comprehension of the material.  
• In routine situations, to provide information and exchange views – the roleplay, simulation, and conversational activities include opportunity to practice the exchange of ideas, information, and views. Assessment will determine how well students retain comprehension of the material.  
• To speak English with ease and fluency - ease will vary from students to student but the included practice in the course should help improve speaking stress issues and improve fluency through practice. Assessment will determine how well students retain comprehension of the material.  
• To be able to hold a fluent conversation for five minutes on a familiar subject – most speaking activities will be above five minutes while formal speeches will typically be around that level. Students will also be given the opportunity for longer speech actions as the course progresses. Assessment will determine how well students retain comprehension of the material.  
• To synthesize oral and written communication for discussion purposes – an important component of the course is readings as well as oral communication. Likewise, students will be asked to write responses and evaluations of their own and classmate performances. Assessment will determine how well students retain comprehension of the material.  
• To synthesize information on given subjects for formal oral presentations – student speeches will always be based upon original research synthesis. Assessment will determine how well students retain comprehension of the material.  
See further down for assessment strategies related to the course and Core Ability Items.
General Learning Outcomes
Assessment Tools & Indicators Evaluation Tools Measurements  
Learning Goals & Effectiveness Exams Experience Reports Special Projects Pre/Post Test Other Quiz Blueprint Other Metric  
Have the ability to plan learning and career development path. ※ ※   
Be able to effectively use university learning resources. ※   
Have the ability to read in depth. ※ ※ ※   
Be able to explore and become familiar with new types of digital learning models.   
Develop an attitude and strategy of independent and lifelong learning. ※ ※ ※ ※  
Have teamwork and special production ability. ※ ※
Learning Outcomes and Core Ability Items
To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.
Assessment Tools & Indicators Evaluation Tools Measurements  
Learning Goals & Effectiveness Exams Experience Reports Special Projects Speeches Other Conversational Activities Quiz Blueprint Other Metric  
To actively and efficiently express an opinion or to discuss a specialized subject for at least ten minutes. ※ ※ ※ ※ ※   
To make few mistakes in grammar, vocabulary or pronunciation and to converse fluently. ※ ※ ※ ※   
To understand the expressions used different occasions, including daily conversation, broadcasting, speeches, etc. ※ ※ ※ ※ ※ ※   
In routine situations, to provide information and exchange views. ※ ※   
To speak English with ease and fluency. ※ ※ ※   
To be able to hold a fluent conversation for five minutes on a familiar subject. ※ ※   
To synthesize oral and written communication for discussion purposes. ※ ※ ※ ※ ※   
To synthesize information on given subjects for formal oral presentations. ※ ※ ※ ※ 
Depending upon student feedback, we may incorporate a form of a teaching approach known as GAMIFICATION as well as GAMIZATION, using fantasy card, board, and tabletop games in contexts adapted to the language learning classroom. We would follow a sequence of activities ranging from conversational fantasy card games up through student generated sessions of tabletop roleplaying games such as the AWFULLY CHEERFUL ENGINE (ACE RPG). TRPG may be a component of in-class interaction. If/when we are holding class online due to pandemic prevention protocols, we use Discord and Owlbear Rodeo for Virtual Table Top (VTT) sessions. We may also use particular card and board games (again, based upon student feedback).
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
The specific course schedule is To Be Announced. See wakingdreams.org/nccu for updates as well as the class facebook pages and other resources. See below for additional information on course requirements. This is a very preliminary schedule which will change after student assessments and initial feedback at which time, the students will help build their calendar based upon interest as well as course guidelines for achievement goals.  
Specific texts to be discussed may decided later, dependent upon the research and reading interests of the students. The general approach to the material will be chronological and topical. Please be aware that the course is very participatory in nature and that a number of videos, television programs, and films will be shown in class. Periodically, student assignments will be created as content for the student media magazine Sparkshow. Material produced for Sparkshow will be permanently archived and available to the public  
THIS SCHEDULE IS A PRELIMINARY PLACEHOLDER, THE ACTUAL SCHEDULE WILL COME AFTER INTERACTION WITH STUDENTS TO DETERMINE LEVELS AND INTERESTS.  
WED  
Oral 3, 9-12, 420 Research  
WEEK TOPIC CONTENT & READING ACTIVITIES & HOMEWORK TIME/WEEK HRS  
IN CLASS OUT CLASS  
01  
Orientation Orientation to the Course  
Read: Improvisational Language Structures  
Intro to Informative Speech  
Discussion of Course Content  
Ice Breaker Questions  
ILS 3 2  
02  
Critical Thinking
Intro to TRPG Awfully Cheerful Engine  
Story 3 3  
03  
Information Raising and Review Favorite Music Music Share Activity Presentation  
Blueprint 3 3  
04  
Critical Thinking  
Critical Reading and Discussion Story  
Blueprint 3 3  
05  
Negotiation
Introduction to Negotiation Negotiation Activity  
3 4.5  
06  
Interactive Drama & Critical Thought Introduction to Interactive Drama  
Motive, Means, Opportunity  
Critical Reading/Thinking  
Introduction to Totally Accurate Battle Simulation  
Interactive Drama: White Collar Crime
TABS 3 3  
07  
Critical Thinking Critical Thinking Media  
Critical Thinking  
Séance; Derren Brown Critical Thinking Discussion Activities  
Cold Reading  
Pendulum  
3 4.5  
08  
Critical Thinking & Discussion for Purpose Psychic Followup  
Tarot, Crystal Ball, Palmistry, Numbers, Cards, Weirdness  
Intro to Informative Demonstration Presentation Assignment  
Cold Reading & Pendulum Feedback  
Tarot Activity
TABS Progress Check-In  
3 4.5  
09
MidX Negotiation  
Negotiation Practical Experience with Mr Cheng’s Class for Totally Accurate Battle Simulation  
TABS Negotiations Dual Class Activity
3 4  
10  
Assessment Midterm Examination Exam 3 4.5  
11  
Presentation Presentation: DEMONSTRATIONAL INFORMATION RAISING Student Video Presentations 3 3  
12  
Critical Thinking  
Critical Reading and Discussion Story  
Blueprint   
13  
Influence Rokeach on Influence  
Monroe on Influence  
Cialdini on Influence  
Dewey’s Reflective Thinking Pattern  
Advertising Analysis  
Group Scholarship Discussion Activity  
3 3  
14  
Presentation Presentation: PERSUASIVE SPEECH (Monroe) Student Speeches 3 4.5  
15  
Critical Freeform  
Dual Class Activity with Mr Cheng’s Class (Oral Final Examination)  
Interactive Drama: Vacation Dual Class Activity  
3 3  
16
FinX  
Assessment Written Final Examination Exam 3 5  
17*  
Plus Week  
Really Awesome Outside Activity TBA  
AI Project  
3 3  
18* Plus Week  
Really Awesome Outside Activity TBA  
Conversation Project  
3 3
Periodically, we may play any of a number of language games, card activities, or ILS patterns.
Preliminary Schedule (Subject to Change – this schedule absolutely will change). Depending upon student feedback, we may be substituting some projects with the COMMUNICATION GAME DESIGN PROJECT as well as making other adjustments based upon student experience and interests as they correlate with program guidelines and educational goals.  
Periodically, we may play any of a number of language games, card activities, or ILS patterns.  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.