國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：翻譯專題：翻譯理論 
#####  Course Name: Topics on Translation : Translation Theory
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：501045001 Course No.501045001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文四甲、英文四乙 Course Department:English/B/4 
  * 授課老師：余淑慧 Instructor: YEE SOH-FEE 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一D56 Session: mon13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
Description:
This course provides an overview of translation theories/studies as an academic discipline. It aims to help students develop a better understanding of the nature of translation, types of translation and how translation is viewed in the course of history. Brief histories of translation East and West will also be covered in the course.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 掌握西方文學與文化發展的歷史文化脈絡，以熟悉不同文化觀點(To trace the historical and cultural transformations in Western literature in order to understand different cultural perspectives)
  * B. 具備西方文學與文化研究之相關知能以培養獨立思考與批判之能力(To acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for doing research on Western literature and culture in order to develop independent and critical judgment.)
  * C. 具備語言學的基礎專業知識，以培養觀察分析及推理能力(To acquire a basic knowledge of linguistics in order to foster the ability to make logical conclusions through observation and analysis)
  * D. 具備應用語言學及英語教學的基礎專業知識及實務應用能力 (To acquire knowledge of applied linguistics in order to make practical applications to methods of teaching English.)
  * E. 理解、分析及整合英文訊息並以口說英文充分表達自我與協調溝通 (To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.)
  * F. 解讀、分析及整合英文篇章並書寫不同主題及目的英文文章以表達自我並呈現個人思維邏輯(To understand, analyze, and synthesize articles in English and to write English papers on different topics and for different purposes to fully express oneself and to reason in written English.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Objective:
Major central issues such as equivalence, loss and gain (in translation), translatability/untranslatability, and visibility/invisibility will be examined in the course. By the end of the course, students are expected to:
  1. become familiar with various theories of translation in the course of history and be able to define central concepts found in translation theories and/or Translation Studies;
  2. be able to describe the nature of translation and explain why certain translations are made in certain ways.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
18週18 weeks | 無彈性補充教學週No flexible supplemental instruction week  
A Tentative Schedule for the class of Translation Theory
Note 1: This course is divided into _three_ sections: (I) A History of Western Translation Theory, (II) Contemporary Translation Studies, and (III) Central Issues in Translation Studies.
Note 2: Studying hours: It depends. Usually, for each 3-hour class meeting, expect to spend at least 3~6 hours of studying outside the class. Please come to each class prepared to ask at least one question about the readings, whether or not you are presenting.
Note 3: The schedule is subject to change.
Section I: A History of Western Translation Theory
  1. 02/17 1. Introduction; 2. Definition: “What is translation?” [☆1-2]; “What is a translation theory?” [☆3-4]); 3. A translation exercise: One word, four translations.
  1. 02/24 1. The Romans : Cicero and sense-for-sense translation (p. 53-56); 2. Read Cicero’s “The Best Kind of Orator” [☆25-26]; 3. Read Zhi Qian’s “The Preface to _Dhamapada_ ” (支謙〈法句經序〉): How Buddhist sutra translation process was conducted in ancient China [☆26]; 4. Group discussion (1) : Sun and Moon.
  1. 03/03 1. Bible translation: Saint Jerome(p. 56-60); 2. Read some of the famous writings on Bible translation from St. Jerome (“Letter to Pammachius”)[☆28-29], Augustine (“On the Christian Doctrine”) [☆28] and his “Letter to Saint Jerome” [☆28]; 3. Group discussion(2): Cicero and Zhi Qian__ The similarities and differences in their translation theories.
  1. 03/10 1. Early theorists: Etienne Dolet(p. 63-64); 2. The Renaissance(p. 65-67); 3. Read Etienne Dolet’s “On the Way of Translation Well from One Language into Another” [☆31];4. A word-for-word translation exercise: A Latin sentence and a traditional Chinese poem [☆30]: 5. Group discussion (3) : Cicero and Zhi Qian.
  1. 03/17 1. The seventeenth century : John Dryden and his preface to Ovid’s _Epistles_ (p. 67-70); 2. The eighteenth century: Alexander Fraser Tytler3. Read Tytler’s _Essay on the Principles of Translation_ [☆32]; 4. Group discussion (4): Cicero and Zhi Qian.
  1. 03/24 1. Romanticism and Post-Romanticism(p. 72-76): Friedrich Schleiermacher and his “On the Different Methods of Translation”) [☆33]; 2. The Victorians (p. 76-79) : Edward Fitzgerald and his preface to _Rubaiyat_ of Omar Khayyam (See also his letters to his friend E. B. Cowell on page 80/38)[☆34]; 3. The Twentieth century to the 1970s : Ezra Pound.(p. 81-83): 4. An exercise: What happens when a language is translated into another language (_The_ _Story of the Stone_[David Hawkes]).
Section II: Contemporary Translation Studies
  1. 03/31 1. A prelude to Translation Studies: Read Susan Bassnett’s “The Coming of Age of Translation Studies” (p. 83-87);2. Translation Studies 1 (The founding Statement): Read James Holmes’s “The Name and Nature of Translation Studies.” (p.181-190); 3. Read Holmes’s map [☆53] and “Descriptive Translation Studies (DTS)”[☆59]; 4. Group discussion(5): To compare and study three Chinese translations of _The Picture of Dorian Gray_.
  1. 04/07 1. Translation Studies 2 (Polysystem Theory): Read part of Itamar Even-Zohar’s “Polysystem theory and Translation Studies” and Gideon Toury’s “In Search of a Theory of Translation” and his contribution: the translation norms (pdf); 2. Read “Skopos Theory” (p. 83-84) and “Translation and Power” (p. 85-86); 3. Group discussion(6): To compare and study three Chinese translations of _The Picture of Dorian Gray_.
  1. 04/14 1. Translation Studies 3 (Manipulation School): Read part of André Lefevere’s _Translation, Rewriting and the Manipulation of Literary Fame_[☆61], “Rewriting” [☆61] and “Cultural approaches” [☆62];2. Group discussion (7): The meaning of “rewriting” in Lefevere’s theory and the possibilities of treating translation as a “rewriting” of an original text.
  1. 04/21 Midterm exam
  1. 04/28 1. Translation Studies 4 (Deconstruction[☆63-65]: Read Jacques Derrida’s “Des Tours de Babel” (p.165-170)/[☆66-67] and “Tower of Babel” [☆68];2. Read Walter Benjamin’s “The Task of the Translator” (p. 71-82); 3. Group discussion (8): The idea of “transformation” instead of “translation.”
SectionIII: Issues in Translation Studies
  1. 05/05 1. Issues in Translation Studies 1 (Loss and Gain) : Read “Decoding and recoding” (p. 26-33)/〔☆10-12〕;2. A translation exercise : The word “spirit” (p. 31) and its many meanings and translations.
  1. 05/12 1. Issues in Translation Studies 2 (Equivalence): Read Read “Problems of equivalence” (33-39);2. Read Walter Benjamin’s “The Task of the Translator” (p. 79 and p.82) and “Interlinear Translation” [☆75].
  1. 05/19 1. Issues in Translation Studies3(Translatability and untranslatability) : Read “Untranslatability” (p. 41-45); 2. Read Catford’s linguistic untranslatability and cultural untranslatability (p. 41-42);3. Read Walter Benjamin’s “The Task of the Translator” (p. 72-73) for the idea of “translatability”; 4. A discussion: Mounin and Levy’s solutions (p. 44-45).
  1. 05/26 1. Issues in Translation Studies 3 (The problems of “Invisibility”) : Read Susan Bassnett’s “Visibility” (p. 6-8); 2. Read Lawrence Venuti’s “Invisibility” [☆6-8]; 3. Read Walter Benjamin’s “The Task of the Translator” (p. 77): 4. A discussion: To be visible or not? What is the “task” of the translator?
  1. 06/02 1. Issues in Translation Studies 4 (The role of the translator): Read “Lawrence Venuti: Rethinking Translation” [☆8-9]; 2. Read “Translation as a decision-making process”; 3. A translation exercise: Otavio Paz on translation. (p. 49).
  1. 06/09 1.The future of Translation Studies: Read Susan Bassnett’s “Translation in the 21st Century” (p. 141-148); 2. Conclusion: Translation and its many meanings, many theories and many “uses” (Walter Benjamin’s tangent image).
  1. 06/16. Final exam
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.