國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：文學作品讀法 
#####  Course Name: Approaches to Literature
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：501011001 Course No.501011001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文一甲 Course Department:English/B/1 
  * 授課老師：吳敏華 Instructor: WU MIN-HUA 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一D56 Session: mon13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
The primary aim of this course is to expose students to a good number of important literary texts, including works of such literary genres as prose, fiction, poetry, and drama. We will examine a great range of representative texts from different historical periods by authors of a variety of nationalities and ethnic backgrounds that are both canonical and non-canonical. Through perusing, interpreting, investigating, presenting as well as discussing a great diversity of critical texts and literary genres, students will expand their cultural, historical and literature awareness, while developing advanced skills in critical thinking and written analysis, which may amount to individual academic essay writing or personal creative writing in the English language. At the end of the semester, not merely will students be familiar with the four major literary genres and their typical literary works, but they will be able to investigate a chosen literary work/text with a pertinent and potent literary approach, such as New Criticism, Structuralism, Poststructuralism, Deconstruction, Narrative Theory, Biographical Criticism, Psychoanalytic Criticism, Freudian Criticism, Jungian and Myth Criticism, Lacanian Criticism, Reader-response Criticism, Marxist Criticism, Feminist Criticism, Gender Studies and Queer Theory, African American and Ethnic Literary Studies, New Historicism, Cultural Studies, or Postcolonial Criticism and Studies of World Literature.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 掌握西方文學與文化發展的歷史文化脈絡，以熟悉不同文化觀點(To trace the historical and cultural transformations in Western literature in order to understand different cultural perspectives)
  * B. 具備西方文學與文化研究之相關知能以培養獨立思考與批判之能力(To acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for doing research on Western literature and culture in order to develop independent and critical judgment.)
  * C. 具備語言學的基礎專業知識，以培養觀察分析及推理能力(To acquire a basic knowledge of linguistics in order to foster the ability to make logical conclusions through observation and analysis)
  * D. 具備應用語言學及英語教學的基礎專業知識及實務應用能力 (To acquire knowledge of applied linguistics in order to make practical applications to methods of teaching English.)
  * E. 理解、分析及整合英文訊息並以口說英文充分表達自我與協調溝通 (To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.)
  * F. 解讀、分析及整合英文篇章並書寫不同主題及目的英文文章以表達自我並呈現個人思維邏輯(To understand, analyze, and synthesize articles in English and to write English papers on different topics and for different purposes to fully express oneself and to reason in written English.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
At the end of the semester, not merely will students be familiar with the four major literary genres and their typical literary works, but they will be able to investigate a chosen literary work/text with a pertinent and potent literary approach, such as New Criticism, Structuralism, Poststructuralism, Deconstruction, Narrative Theory, Biographical Criticism, Psychoanalytic Criticism, Freudian Criticism, Jungian and Myth Criticism, Lacanian Criticism, Reader-response Criticism, Marxist Criticism, Feminist Criticism, Gender Studies and Queer Theory, African American and Ethnic Literary Studies, New Historicism, Cultural Studies, or Postcolonial Criticism and Studies of World Literature.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
113-2 Brief Schedule of Approaches to Literature:Fall2024(Min-Hua Wu)
W |  Date |  Topic |  Class Activity and Required Readings |  Assign-ment |  Preview hour |  Review hour  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  Feb. 17 |  Introduction |  Course introduction and self-introductions  “Introduction” (pp. 1-13)  Assigning presentations and seat arrangement  Timer, housekeeper, LINE group |  Readings |  3 |  3  
2 |  Feb. 24 |  Fiction (Plot and Symbol) |  Fiction: Reading, Responding, Writing (pp. 16-27) 1. Faulkner [15] “A Rose for Emily” (pp. 305-12) 2. Hawthorne [15] “The Birth-Mark” (pp. 149-160) |  Readings |  3 |  3  
3 |  Mar. 3 |  Fiction (Narration and Point of View) |  3. Joyce [15] “Araby” (pp. 127-31) 4. Hemingway [15] “Hills Like White Elephants” (pp. 329-32)  |  Readings |  3 |  3  
4 |  Mar. 10 |  Fiction (Theme and Setting) |  5. Gilman [15] “The Yellow-Wall Paper” (pp. 317-28) 6. Tan [15] “A Pair of Tickets” (pp. 393-406) |  Readings |  3 |  3  
5 |  Mar. 17 |  Fiction (Theme, Setting and Sample Writing) |  7. Kafka [15] “A Hunger Artist” (pp. 333-39) 8. Kawabata [15] “The Grasshopper and the Bell Cricket” (pp. 186-89) Sample Writing: “Response Report on ‘Cathedral’” (pp. 37-41) Sample Writing: Essay (pp. 42-45) |  Readings |  3 |  3  
6 |  Mar. 24 |  Poetry (Defining, Reading, Responding, Writing) |  Poetry: Reading, Responding, Writing (pp. 418-27) 9. Wordsworth [10] “I wandered lonely as a cloud” (pp. 428-29) 10. Pope [10] “Sound and Sense” (pp. 545-49) 11. Keats [10] “Ode to a Nightingale” (pp. 533-35) |  Readings |  3 |  3  
7 |  Mar. 31 |  Poetry (Sonnets and Traditional Forms) |  12. Shakespeare [10] “Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day?” (p. 522)  Shakespeare “Let me not to the marriage of true minds” (pp. 591-92) (32) [8] Wordsworth “Nuns Fret Not” (pp. 593) (33) [8] 13. Browning [10] “How Do I Love Thee” (p. 594)  14. Thomas [10] “Do Not Go Gentle into That Good Night” (pp. 578-79)  15. Collins [10] “Sonnet” (p. 598)  Sample Writing: Comparative Essay (pp. 600-603) |  Readings |  3 |  3  
8 |  Apr. 7 |  Mid-term Exam |  Taking the mid-term exam |  Exam |  |   
9 |  Apr. 14 |  Lecture by Prof. Lai |  Prof. Lai Chun-Wei will give a talk on Deleuze, a French literary theorist and thinker |  |  |   
10 |  Apr. 21 |  Poetry (Voice, Setting, Symbol) |  Wordsworth “She Dwelt among the Untrodden Ways” (pp. 456-57) (34) [8] 16. Arnold [ 10] “Dover Beach” (pp. 469-70) 17. Hecht [10] “Dover Bitch” (PDF)  18. Lee [10] “Persimmons” (pp. 471-73) 19. Donne [10] “The Flea” (p. 478) Donne “Death, be not proud” (p. 627) (35) [8] |  Readings |  3 |  3  
11 |  Apr. 28 |  |  20. Frost [10] “The Road Not Taken” (pp. 535-36)  Frost “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening” (p. 628) (36) [8] Keats “Ode on a Grecian Urn” (pp. 634-35) (37) [8] 21. Parker [10] “One Perfect Rose” (p. 531) 22. Blake [10] “Sick Rose” (pp. 532-33)  |  |  3 |  3  
12 |  May 5 |  Poetry (Imagery and Symbol) |  23. Dickinson [10] “Because I could not stop for Death—” (pp. 517-18) Dickinson “Wild Nights—Wild Nights!” (p. 626) (38) [8] Dickinson “‘Hope’ Is the Thing with Feathers—” (p. 624) (39) [8] 24. Pastan [10] “To a Daughter Leaving Home” (p. 639-40)  25. Tennyson [10] “Ulysses” (pp. 651-52)  |  Readings |  3 |  3  
13 |  May 12 |  Drama: _Trifles_ |  Drama: Reading, Responding, Writing (pp. 676-78) 26. Glaspell [20] _Trifles_ (pp. 679-90)  Sample Writing: Response Paper (pp. 698-99) (40) [8] Sample Writing: Essay (pp. 700-02) (41) [8] |  Readings |  3 |  3  
14 |  May 19 |  Drama: _A Doll House_ |  Elements of Drama (pp. 703-13) (42) [8] 27. Ibsen [20] _A Doll House_ (pp. 880-929)  |  Readings |  3 |  3  
15 |  May 26 |  Critical Approaches |  28-31. Critical approaches (16 terms) [15]: theory, term, theorist, representative work, exemplary application (pp. A1-23)  |  Readings |  3 |  3  
16 |  Jun. 2 |  Final Exam |  Defining theoretical terms of contemporary literary approaches and identifying10-20 quotations  |  |  3 |  3  
17* |  Jun. 9 |  Writing Week |  Writing a paper, creative story, or personal response [1500 words/5 pages] Cf: Writing about Literature (pp. 1040-129) |  |  3 |  3  
18* |  Jun. 16 |  Paper/report Submission from Home (LINE Group) [deadline: 16:00] |  Submitting one of the following:
  1. a term paper according to sample writings and MLA style
  2. a creative story rewriting the end of a story, play, or poem.
  3. a creative story rewriting a story, play or poem into a different genre
  4. a personal response essay 
|  Paper/report |  3 |  3  
*I reserve the right to modify the class schedule, requirements, and readings, if needed. All future changes will be announced in the class, through emails, or via the class LINE group. 
####  其他： Others: Quizzes, Creative writing 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.