國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：寫作與閱讀（二）
#####  Course Name: Writing and Reading (II)
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：501019111 Course No.501019111
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文一甲、英文一乙 Course Department:English/B/1 
  * 授課老師：林質心 Instructor: LIN CHIH-HSIN 
  * 先修科目：[ 寫作與閱讀（一）(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([])
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
As this is a one-year course, students who want to join the course for the second semester need to consult the instructor for permission BEFORE the winter break and complete the required exercises.
Students who take this course should come to the first session with the reading for the first week done. There will be a quiz in the first week. The textbook can be purchased at the Bookman, and the reading package will be placed at 馨園影印店(台北市文山區文山區二段119巷2號1樓; 29369521，正門對面屈臣氏旁巷子，可麗餅旁邊) one week before the first session. Students who are registered for this course will receive an instruction through their school email about the readings, the exercise, and the quiz range. Students who are not registered can email the instructor for guidance.
In the second semester, students will learn the basic principles of a good essay and analyze their readings from one of their chosen courses as well as other general articles to practice their reading skills. Students will learn how to ask meaningful questions about their readings, find valid information, analyze data, and draw logical conclusions. Through such practices, students will learn to write expository essays using classification and comparison and contrast to present what they learn in a specific course of their choice.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 掌握西方文學與文化發展的歷史文化脈絡，以熟悉不同文化觀點(To trace the historical and cultural transformations in Western literature in order to understand different cultural perspectives)
  * B. 具備西方文學與文化研究之相關知能以培養獨立思考與批判之能力(To acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for doing research on Western literature and culture in order to develop independent and critical judgment.)
  * C. 具備語言學的基礎專業知識，以培養觀察分析及推理能力(To acquire a basic knowledge of linguistics in order to foster the ability to make logical conclusions through observation and analysis)
  * D. 具備應用語言學及英語教學的基礎專業知識及實務應用能力 (To acquire knowledge of applied linguistics in order to make practical applications to methods of teaching English.)
  * E. 理解、分析及整合英文訊息並以口說英文充分表達自我與協調溝通 (To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.)
  * F. 解讀、分析及整合英文篇章並書寫不同主題及目的英文文章以表達自我並呈現個人思維邏輯(To understand, analyze, and synthesize articles in English and to write English papers on different topics and for different purposes to fully express oneself and to reason in written English.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This is a one-year course aiming at training students to develop writing and reading skills in English for school and for their future career. Students are expected to learn to recognize the thesis statement and the rhetorical pattern of an article, evaluate the relevancy and validity of all supporting materials, and judge the unity, clarity, and coherence of the article. Students are also expected to use these skills in their own writing, learning to narrow down their topic, examine all relevant ideas, ask meaningful questions, and write clear, unified, and coherent essays.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
18週18 weeks | 無彈性補充教學週No flexible supplemental instruction week  
2/20 Review of the skills learned in the first semester
Comparison and Contrast (1)
“Explaining by Means of Comparison and Contrast” (_Patterns_ , pp. 143-49)
“Of Youth and Age” (_Norton_ , pp. 314-15)
2/27 Comparison and Contrast (2)
“Can a Body Meet a Body Coming through the Wire” (_Contemporary_ , pp. 374-77)
*Exercises 9.1, 9.2, and 9.3 (“Some Basic Editing Terms,” pp. 327-32)
3/6 Evaluating your readings
“Evaluating Reading Selections” (Pt II, chap. 6, pp. 200-08)
#Presentation of some possible topics for the chosen course
*Exercises 10.1, 10.2, 11.1, and 11.2 (“Sentence fragments,” pp. 333-36; “Fused Sentences and Comma Splices,” pp. 337-40)
3/13 #Presentation of the selected reading(s) for your comparison-contrast essay
*Exercises 12.1, 12.2, and 12.3 (“Consistency in Verb Tense and Verb Voice,” pp. 341-46)
3/20 Comparison and Contrast (3)
“Why do we Get to Laugh at Fat Guys?” (_Contemporary_ , pp. 71-72)
#Upload the topic, the point of contrast, two to three differences, and the central idea for your comparison-contrast essay-draft
*Exercises 13.1, 13.2, and 13.3 (“Subject-Verb Agreement,” pp. 347-52)
3/27 Comparison and Contrast (4)
“Searching Online May Make You Think You’re Smarter than You are” (pp. 299-301)
*Exercises 14.1, 14.2, and 14.3 (“Unclear Pronoun Reference,” pp. 353-59)
#Upload the topic, the point of contrast, two to three differences, and the central idea for your comparison-contrast essay-revised
4/10 Comparison and Contrast (5)
*Comparison and contrast Essay-draft
*Exercises 15.1, 15.2, and 15.3 (“Pronoun Case,” pp. 360-66)
4/17 Midterm Examination
4/24 Classification (1)
“Analyzing a Subject by Classification” (_Patterns_ , pp. 89-94)
“What, Me? Showing Off?” (_Patterns_ , pp. 97-103)
*Exercises 16. 1 and 16.2 (“Misplaced and Dangling Modifiers,” pp. 367-71)
5/1 Classification (2)
“Are You Living Mindlessly” (pp 430-33)
*Comparison and contrast essay-revised
*Exercises 17.1, 17.2, and 17.3 (“Comma Usage,” pp. 373-80)
5/8 #Presentation of the chosen reading(s) for your classification essay
*Exercises 18.1 and 18.2 (“Semicolons and Colons,” pp. 381-83)
5/15 Classification (3)
“Three Passions I have Lived for” (pp. 45-46)
*Exercises 19.1, 19.2, 20.1, and 20.2 (“The Apostrophe,” pp. 385-87; “Quotation Marks,” pp. 389-90)
#Upload the topic, the principle of classification, the headings for three groups, and the central idea for your classification essay-draft
5/22 Writing based on your readings
“Synthesizing Ideas from Reading Selections” (Pt. II, chap. 7, pp. 237-44)
#Upload the topic, the principle of classification, the headings for three groups, and the central idea for your classification essay-revised
*Exercises 21.1 and 21.2 (“Titles, Capitalization, and Numbers,” pp. 391-94)
5/29 Classification (4)
“Mother Tongue” (_Norton Sampler_ , pp. 132-39)
*Exercises 22.1, 22.2, and 22.3 (“Weak Subjects and Verbs,” pp. 395-99)
*Classification essay-draft
6/5 Classification (5)
*Exercises 23.1, 23.2, 23.3, and 23.4 (“ESL Issues,” pp. 401-06)
6/12 Final Examination
6/19 Critical Thinking Skill Tests
*Classification essay-revised
####  其他： Others: Individual meetings 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.