國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：阿拉伯詩歌與電影中的情愛與慾念
#####  Course Name: Love and Desire in Arabic Poetry and Cinema
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：502813001 Course No.502813001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：阿文三、阿文四 Course Department:Arabic Language and Culture/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：叢培臻 Instructor: TSUNG PEI-CHEN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一56 Session: mon14-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
Love poetry, _ghazal_ , has a fascinating history in Arabic literature. It has been a means of expressing many forms of desire, including erotic passion, platonic yearning, and mystical love for the Divine. This course will explore the development of _ghazal_ from its beginnings in pre-Islamic odes, through the rise of the _ghazal_ as an independent genre, to its adaptations in the classical and modern Arab world. We will investigate how Arabic-language love poets have expressed issues of gender, class, sexuality, existential despair, hope and loss, and living in relationship to God. Alongside this poetic tradition, we will examine how contemporary Arab cinema engages with and reinterprets these themes of love and desire. Through careful analysis of both classical and modern poetry alongside Arab films, we will explore how different mediums articulate the complexities of love, desire, and longing in Arab culture. The pairing of poetry and film will allow us to trace how traditional themes of _ghazal_ - from forbidden love and social barriers to divine yearning and existential questions - continue to resonate and transform in modern visual storytelling. This interdisciplinary approach will deepen our understanding of how expressions of love and desire in Arab culture have both evolved and maintained continuity across time and artistic forms.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 專業創新Acquiring Professional Innovative Abilities
  * B. 人文關懷Advocating the Culturally Care Spirit
  * C. 國際視野Developing an International Perspective 
  * D. 人際與公民能力Cultivating Civic Competences
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the completion of this course, students should be able to:
  * Become familiar with the main stylistic and structural features of Arabic poems
  * Be able to identify important themes in classical and modern love poems
  * Learn to speak and write about poetry using vocabulary and ideas from the field of literary studies.
  * Practice literary close reading and acquire critical vocabulary to discuss literature
  * Improve students’ academic writing skills
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 6 週 Week 6 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
週次 |  課程主題 |  課程內容與指定閱讀 |  教學活動與作業  
---|---|---|---  
1 2/17 |  Introduction to the course |  Introduction to Arabic literature and cinema What is close reading?  |  Lecture   
2 2/24 |  Barriers to love & forbidden desire  |  Selections from Majnun Layla |  Lecture  Text Preview and Reading  
3 3/3 |  Barriers to love & forbidden desire |  Selections from Mahmoud Darwish  |  Lecture  Text Preview and Reading  
4 3/10 |  Barriers to love & forbidden desire |  Film screening (Omar or TBA) |  Film screening   
5 3/17 |  Urban love & female desire  |  Selections from ʿUmar ibn Abī Rabīʿah |  Group Disussion  Text Preview and Reading  
6 3/24 |  Presentation preparation  |  Presentation preparation |  Reading Response I Submission  
7 3/31 |  Urban love & female desire |  Selections from the Singing girls' poetry in the Early Abbasid Era |  Text Preview and Reading  
8 4/7 |  Urban love & female desire |  Film screening  (Caramel or TBA) |  Film screening  
9 4/14 |  Group Presentation  |  Group Presentation |  Group Presentation  
10 4/21 |  Maternal/Protective love and Divine Love |  Selections from Ibn al-Fārid |  Lecture  Text Preview and Reading  
11 4/28 |  Maternal/Protective love and Divine Love |  Selections from Fadwa Tuqan and Nazik Al-Malaika |  Lecture  Text Preview and Reading  
12 5/5 |  Maternal/Protective love and Divine Love |  Film screening  (Capernaum or TBA) |  Film screening  
13 5/12 |  Desire for autonomy  |  Selections from Layla al-Akhyaliyya or TBA |  Group Disussion  Text Preview and Reading  
14 5/19 |  Desire for autonomy |  Selections from Nizar Qabbani |  Reading Response II Submission  
15 5/26 |  Desire for Autonomy |  Film screening  (Wadjda or TBA) |  Film screening  
16 6/2 |  Love across difference  |  Selections from Abū Nuwās |  Group Disussion  Text Preview and Reading  
17 6/9 |  Final paper preparation |  Final paper preparation |  N/A  
18 6/16 |  Final paper submission |  Final paper submission |  Final paper submission  
####  其他： Others:
### _Dīwān ʻUmar ibn Abī Rabīʻah_. Beruit: Dār al-Kitāb al-‘Arabī, 1996.
_Dīwān Abī Nuwās_. Baghdad: Dār al-Risālah lil-Ṭibāʻah, 1980.
_Dīwān Majnūn Layl_ _ā._ Beruit: Dār al-Maʻrifah, 2003.
鄭慧慈（2015）：《阿拉伯文學史》，台北，五南圖書出版有限公司。
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.