國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：捷語會話（一）
#####  Course Name: Czech Conversation I
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：504902002 Course No.504902002
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：斯語二甲、斯語二乙 Course Department:Slavic Languages and Literatures/B/2 
  * 授課老師：赫萊娜 Instructor: Hrdlickova Helena 
  * 先修科目：[ 捷語會話（一）(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([ Czech Conversation I])
  * 上課時間：五34C Session: fri10-13
##  課程簡介Course Description
This language course provides linguistic tools necessary both for production and reception of (mostly oral) Czech language. The goal is to enable students introduce the rules of Czech pronunciation and acquire language skills in basic communication situations at A1 / 2 level according to the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFRL) as well as to introduce them Cultural and historical background of the Czech Republic, geography, places of interest, cultural attractions and lifestyle in the Czech Republic. Throughout the course, lessons will be sequenced from presentation activities and communicative activities based on new vocabulary and “real-life” situations. Listening and writing activities will also be integrated into the lessons to improve student´s language skills.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備基本語言能力
  * B. 具備人文素養及國際宏觀視野
  * C. 具備斯拉夫知識基本知能
  * D. 具備語言實務應用能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is adapted for students – beginners who have limited knowledge of Czech Language (Level A1.1 of CEFRL). The main objective is to reach a level A1/2 by the end of this course. 
Czech Conversation 1 is designed to:
- develop student´s practical knowledge of Czech language and skills;
- allow students to communicate in situations as a tourist (i. e. in the city, daily routine, restaurant, daily routine etc.);
- to create a strong confidence in speaking the Czech language;
- remove hesitation and fear of errors during productive language activities;
- be able to apply theoretical knowledge in practice
- arouse interest in Czech culture and related activities
The students should reach in one academic semester Level A1/2 of CEFRL (in addition with classes of Czech language I), which corresponds to at least 3 lessons from the main teaching material Basic Czech I and II (Adamovičová, A., Ivanovová, D., Hrdlička, M.) or 3 lessons from the teaching material Čeština pro cizince A1, A2 (Kestřánková, M., Štěpánková, D., Vodičková, K.)
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
17+1週17+1 weeks | 第 9 週 Week 9 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
|  週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 2/21 |  Introduction |  Grammar & lexical revision (up to lesson 4, present tense – all types of conjugation, nouns, adjectives, personal nom. acc. sg. pl., gen. sg., basic phrases,) |  Warm-up &Introductory activities, grammar drill |  |   
2 2/28 |  National holiday |  |  |  |   
3 3/7 |  My family |  Acuss.. sg. Ma, poss. Pronouns, word order |  Reading, writing, dialogs |  |   
4 3/14 |  In the city |  Lesson 5: vocabulary, modal verbs, reflexive verbs, past tense, personal and poss. pron.in acc., tourist attractions of Czech and Taiwanese cities, orientation in the town KDE? |  Listening & Speaking, Role-Play activities, Reading  |  |   
5 3/21 |  Travelling |  Lesson 5, verbs jít, jet, instrumental case - means of transport  |  Listening, role-play |  |   
6 3/28 |  My day |  Lesson 6: indefinite and negative adv. and pron., negation in the Czech sentence, irregular past tense, genitive singular, KAM?  |  Pronunciation exercises & Reading & Listening, Grammar exercises |  |   
7 4/4 |  National holiday |  |  |  |   
8 4/11 |  Czech public holidays and traditions, In the restaurant |  Lesson 6: prepositions and personal pron. in gen., dates and months, future and past tense of modal verbs & verbs of motion |  Brainstorming, Work in pairs, Writing exercises |  |   
9 4/18 |  Mid-terms |  Revision |  Revising homework materials |  |   
10 4/25 |  Daily activities X hobbies |  Lesson 7, time expressions, vocative case, past tense of reflexive verbs  |  Watching of short video examples, Reading & Speaking  |  |   
11 5/2 |  At the doctor´s |  L 7, possesive pron. nom,acc, indefinite and negative adjectives and adverbs |  Grammar drill, Writing & Speaking, Work in groups |  |   
12 5/9 |  What happened? |  Lesson 8: irregular past tense, short and long verbs of motion, months and days |  Listening & Reading, Role Play in Pairs  |  |   
13 5/16 |  Happy birthday! |  Lesson 8: vocabulary,,gen. sg., Questions and answers KDE a KAM, prepositions |  Grammar drill, Writing & Speaking |  |   
14 5/23 |  What is new? New apartment!  |  Lesson 8 and 9 genitive functions, genitive plural, renting an apartment |  Listening & Reading, Writing “My favorite personality” |  |   
15 5/30 |  National holiday |  |  |  |   
16 6/6 |  My favorite lifestyle |  Lesson 9: aspect, pf. And impf.,  |  Speaking & Listening, Presenting, Reading |  |   
17 6/13 |  Famous Czechs |  Revision of lessons 7, 8, 9 |  Work in groups, Speaking & Writing, Grammar exercises |  |   
18 6/20 |  Finals |  Final Exams & Student´s feedback |  Written and oral exam |  |   
####  其他： Others: homeworks, quizes 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.