國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：捷語會話（二）
#####  Course Name: Czech Conversation II
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：504901002 Course No.504901002
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：斯語三甲、斯語三乙 Course Department:Slavic Languages and Literatures/B/3 
  * 授課老師：赫萊娜 Instructor: Hrdlickova Helena 
  * 先修科目：[ 捷語會話（二）(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([ Czech Conversation])
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course continues Czech conversation II (1 semester) and is based for students who have A2/1 knowledge of Czech language. It provides linguistic tools necessary both for production and reception of (mostly oral) Czech language. The goal is to enable students a better understanding of communicative situations and lifestyle in the Czech Republic. At the end of this course, level A2/2 according to the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages ​​(CEFRL) will be achieved.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備人文素養及國際宏觀視野
  * B. 具備基本語言能力
  * C. 具備斯拉夫知識基本知能
  * D. 具備語言實務應用能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is adapted for students – beginners who have knowledge of Czech Language (Level A2.1 of CEFRL). The main objective is to reach a level A2/2 by the end of this course.
Czech Conversation 2 is designed to:
- develop student´s practical knowledge of Czech language and skills;
- to enable students express themselves in a wider range of communication topics and situations (ie my family, relatives and friends, health &illness, what are we like (character and features) , what do we look like, hobbies, daily duties, living, clothing, traveling etc.);
- to create a strong confidence in speaking the Czech language;
- remove hesitation and fear of errors during productive language activities;
- be able to apply theoretical knowledge in practice
- arouse interest in Czech culture and related activities
The students should reach in one academic semester Level A2/2 of CEFRL (in addition with classes of Czech language I), which corresponds to at least 4 lessons from the teaching material Čeština pro cizince A1, A2 (Kestřánková, M., Štěpánková, D., Vodičková, K.) or 4 lessons from the main teaching material Basic Czech II, III (Adamovičová, A., Ivanovová, D., Hrdlička, M.). 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 16 週 Week 16 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 17 週 Week 17 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 2/18 |  Introduction |  Grammar & lexical revision (lesson 5, 6, 7) |  Warm-up; Introductory activities; grammar drill |  |   
2 2/25 |  At the post office, bank, police |  Lesson 8: vocabulary, locative functions, loc. of personal pronouns  |  Listening; Writing; grammar drill |  |   
3 ¾ |  Scholarship; at the study department |  L 8: loc. sg., prepositions with locative, past tense irregular and modal verbs |  Pronunciation exercises; Reading; Listening; Grammar exercises |  |   
4 3/11 |  At the doctors |  Lesson 9: vocabulary; dative case - functions, dat. of personal pronouns |  Listening; Reading; Dialogs; Role-play  |  |   
5 3/18 |  I like change |  L 9: past tense of reflexive verbs, word order, dat. sg., adjectives and adv.. structures |  Listening&Speaking, Reading;Work in pairs  |  |   
6 3/25 |  Famous Czechs |  Scientists, artists, politicians |  Reading; Watching short movies; Writing  |  |   
7 4/1 |  At the hotel |  L9 verbs of motion; L 10: vocabulary; instrumental functions, instr. of personal pronouns |  Listening; Reading; Grammar drill exercises; Dialogs  |  |   
8 4/8 |  Travelling |  L10: instr. case declension, prepositions with instr. |  Reading; Writing; Speaking |  |   
9 4/15 |  Mid-terms |  Revision and test L 8, 9 |  Testing |  |   
10 4/22 |  Easter and May favorite Czech traditions |  Selected texts and video samples of traditions, own compositions; relative pronoun KTERÝ |  Watching; discussion;reading; writing |  |   
11 4/29 |  Plans for the future |  L10: future tense of all verbs of motion, subclauses with KDYŽ |  Speaking; Listening, Presenting, Reading |  |   
12 5/6 |  The best living ever |  L 11: vocabulary; Irregular comparatives and superlatives od adjectives and adverbs |  Listening& Reading, Grammar drill, Writing; Speaking |  |   
13 5/13 |  Renting a new apartment |  L 11: nom. and acc. plural M anim.; possessive pronoun SVŮJ  |  Watching short movie; Speaking; Grammar drill |  |   
14 5/20 |  Accident; at the police |  Coordinate and subordinate clauses; conjunctions PROTO; PROTOŽE, instrumental case |  Listening; Reading, Writing; Grammar exercises  |  |   
15 5/27 |  My busy day |  L 12: vocabulary; cultural activities; dative plural; instrumental pl. |  Brainstorming & Role-Play; writing; grammar exercises  |  |   
16 6/3 |  Revision |  Revision of all declination and conjugation |  Reading; writing, grammar exercises |  |   
17 6/6 |  Oral exams |  Final oral exam & consultations |  Exmination |  |   
18 6/17 |  Finals |  Final Exams & Student´s feedback |  Written  |  |   
####  其他： Others: self study 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.