國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：中級西文聽力會話 
#####  Course Name: Intermediate Spanish Listening and Conversation
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：509016002 Course No.509016002
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：歐文西二 Course Department:European Languages and Cultures/B/2 
  * 授課老師：馬德睿 Instructor: TERRAZAS ZAMBRANA MAURICIO 
  * 先修科目：[ 中級西文聽力會話(單學期)(有修即可)]Prerequisite([ Intermediate Spanish Listening and Conversation])
  * 上課時間：二56 Session: tue14-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
The present course will build on the fundamentals of the first semester and continue helping students to develop their oral communicative abilities. The course will strengthen students' knowledge and communicative competence to correspond to an intermediate level. This will ensure that students exceed the threshold of level A2 and acquire the basis of level B1 (based on the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages).
The course offers numerous exercises and activities to practice (such as role plays, guessing games, and discussions). Students are required to participate actively in all these activities.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備語言教學基本知能 Basic competence of language teaching
  * B. 具備基本語言能力 Basic abilities of language
  * C. 具備語言實務應用能力 Abilities to applicate the language
  * D. 具備國際交流基本知能 Abilities of global mobility
  * E. 具備專業語文研究能力 Abilities of professional research in language
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
At the end of the course, the students should be able to:
-buy clothes and interact with a clerk at a store
-arrange dates and appointments
-express intentions and plans
-describe and talk about health problems
-talk about recent events
-describe events and habits of the past
-talk about the biography of a person
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
17+1週17+1 weeks | 第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 (2/18) |  La comida |  Lec. 7 La comida Hacer la compra Preparar una comida |  pp. 79-83 |  2 |  2  
2 (2/25) |  La comida |  Lec. 7 La comida Pedir la comida en un restaurante Hablar sobre los platos españoles |  pp. 84-90 |  2 |  2  
3 (3/4) |  Ropa y complementos |  Lec. 8 Ropaycomplementos Describir y comparar prendas de ropa  |  pp. 91-95 |  2 |  2  
4 (3/11) |  Ropa y complementos |  Lec. 8 Ropaycomplementos Ir de compras Hablar sobre tiendas y marcas |  pp. 96-102 |  2 |  2  
5 (3/18) |  Fiestas, invitaciones y citas |  Lec. 9 Quedar con amigos Quedar con alguien Invitar, aceptar o rechazar una invitación |  pp. 103-108 |  2 |  2  
6 (3/25) |  Fiestas, invitaciones y citas |  Lec. 9 Quedar con amigos Hablar de lo que haces ahora Decir cuándo se celebra algo |  pp. 109-114 |  2 |  2  
7 (4/1) |  Planes e intenciones |  Lec. 10 Hacer planes Expresar planes e intenciones Proponer actividades y responder a las propuestas |  pp. 115-120 |  2 |  2  
_8 (4/8)_ | _Midterm exam_ | _Examen parcial_ | _Examen parcial_ |  _2_ |  _2_  
9 (4/15) |  Planes e intenciones |  Lec. 10 Hacer planes Hacer una llamada de teléfono Hablar de actividades turísticas |  pp. 121-126 |  2 |  2  
10 (4/22) |  Salud e higiene |  Lec. 11 Problemas de salud Hablar de la salud Expresar estados físicos y mentales |  pp. 127-133 |  2 |  2  
11 (4/29) |  Salud e higiene |  Lec. 11 Problemas de salud Hablar del cuerpo y expresar dolor Expresar posibilidad, permiso y obligación |  pp. 134-138 |  2 |  2  
12 (5/6) |  Hechos recientes |  Lec. 12 Últimas noticias Dar noticias y hablar de hechos recientes Hablar de experiencias personales |  pp. 139-144 |  2 |  2  
13 (5/13) |  Hechos recientes |  Lec. 12 Últimas noticias Expresar estados de ánimo y reaccionar ante noticias Hablar de los medios de comunicación |  pp. 145-150 |  2 |  2  
14 (5/20) | School's anniversary | No class |  |  |   
15 (5/27) |  Hechos del pasado |  Lec. 13 Ayer en el trabajo Contar hechos del pasado Pedir excusas y dar explicaciones |  pp. 151-156 |  2 |  2  
16 (6/3) | Examen final | Examen final |  |  2 |  2  
17 (6/10) | Examen final | Examen final |  |  2 |  2  
18 (6/17) |  Hechos del pasado |  Flexible class, distance learning, watch a video and answer questions |  |  2 |  2  
####  其他： Others: Students' oral presentations 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.