國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：初級越語語法
#####  Course Name: Basic Vietnamese Grammar
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：510026002 Course No.510026002
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：東南越一 Course Department:Southeast Asian Languages and Cultures/B/1 
  * 授課老師：黎氏仁 Instructor: LE THI-NHAM 
  * 先修科目：[ 初級越語語法(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([ Basic Vietnamese Grammar])
  * 上課時間：三34 Session: wed10-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
The course is a continuation of Vietnamese grammar I, in which, it is designed to provide students the practically grammatical points and semantic features of Vietnamese words. Concurrently with the courses of _Basic Vietnamese_ II and _Basic Vietnamese Conversation II_ , where conversations, reading passages, and grammar rules are taught in specific topics but unsystematic, it leads to confusing in many cases. Therefore, this course with endeavors to introduce how Vietnamese language works systematically through the various exercises and drills.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備基本語言及應用能力 To possess basic language proficiency and application skills
  * B. 具備東南亞研究基礎知識 To obtain fundamental knowledge in Southeast Asian studies
  * C. 具備人文素養及思辨能力To possess humanistic literacy and critical thinking skills
  * D. 具備國際宏觀視野 To have an international perspective
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The goals of this course are aimed to introduce the inherent characteristics of Vietnamese words (word classes, original and word-formation, and phrases). Finally, it help to build the constituents of Vietnamese sentences (simple, compound and complex sentences).
Each lesson has drills and exercises to improve four skills of Vietnamese language. Upon the completion of elementary course, students will establish the foundation of Vietnamese as follow:
_發音Pronunciation:_
  * Obtain the perfect pronunciation with natural intonation in Vietnamese.
_詞彙Vocabulary:_
  * Obtain extended vocabulary used in daily life.
_文法Grammar:_
  * Sentence patterns: nào…nấy/ấy…, gì…nấy…, đâu….đấy…, bao nhiêu…bấy nhiêu…, chừng nào…chừng ấy…, v.v…
_聽力Listening:_
  * Be able to listen and comprehend basic conversations in familiar topics within the limits of vocabulary and grammar acquired in this course.
_口說Speaking:_
  * Be able to answer simple questions and express oneself in familiar situations.
_閱讀Reading:_
  * Be able to read and understand short passages on familiar daily topics written in basic vocabulary.
_寫作Writing:_
  * Be able to write dictations, simple sentences and short passages in familiar topics within the limit of basic vocabulary and grammar.
_越語檢定標準Vietnamese language proficiency level:_
  * Successful students will be able to acquire A2 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Contents and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student Workload Expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課當 講授 In-class Hours |  課程 前後 Outside -of-class Hours  
1 |  Final particles | 
  * Emphatic particles that help form a request: đi, nào, thôi, với, nhé
  * Expressing the speaker’s attitudes: kia, cơ
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
2 |  Final particles | 
  * Interrogative forms: à, ư, nhỉ, chứ, hả, chăng.
  * Exclamations forms: thay, thật
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
3 |  Final particles | 
  * Used to express reluctance: vậy
  * The demonstrative pronouns: đây, đấy, ấy, nào
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
4 |  Exclamatory sentences | 
  * Interjection ôi
  * The adverb of degree: thật là
  * Emphatic ơi là
  * Final words: thế, quá ta
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
5 |  Comparatives sentences | 
  * The comparative relations: còn, khác với, ngược lại…
  * Constructions:mặc dù…nhưng…, giống như, v.v…
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
6 |  Cause and effect sentences | 
  * Cause and effect relations: vì…nên/mà…, nhờ…mà…, do…mà…, v.v…
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
7 |  Emphatic sentences | 
  * Emphatic positive declarative sentences with có + verb
  * Construction:….có…mới…
  * Construction: vừa/ vừa mới…đã….
|  |  2 |  3  
8 |  Concession and increase sentences | 
  * Concession and increase relation: tuy…nhưng, mặc dù…nhưng…, dù…thì…, thà…chứ/ còn hơn…, v.v…
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
9 |  Corresponding sentences | 
  * Corresponding relations: nào…nấy/ấy…, gì…nấy…, đâu….đấy…, bao nhiêu…bấy nhiêu…, chừng nào…chừng ấy…, v.v…
  * Group of personal opinions: theo…, đối với…., với…,v.v…
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
10 |  Midterm exam |  |  2 |  3  
11 |  Emphatic sentences |  Emphatic positive declarative sentences with cũng :
  * ở đâu + subject + cũng + predicate
  * bao giờ + subject + cũng + predicate
  * Ai/ nouns + nào + cũng + predicate
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
12 |  Emphatic sentences |  Emphatic constructions use conversational negations chẳng/ chả:
  * Noun/ pronoun/ clause + mà + chẳng/ chả + verb/ adjective
  * Emphatic positive declarative sentences with bất cứ/ bất kì
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
13 |  Emphatic sentences |  Construction: not only….but also… in Vietnamese
  * Không những/ không chỉ + verb/ adjective + mà còn + verb/ adjective (nữa).
  * Không chỉ + noun/ noun phrase + mà cả + noun/ noun phrase
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
14 |  Condition/ hypotheses sentences | 
  * Condition/hypotheses- consequences relation: nếu…thì, hễ…thì, miễn là…thì, giá thì, giả sử…thì…, v.v…
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
15 |  Emphatic words | 
  * Emphatic chính
  * Emphatic ngay
  * Emphatic ngay cả
  * Emphatic thậm chí
  * Emphatic mãi
  * Emphatic toàn + verb
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
16 |  Initial particles | 
  * Initial particle: à
  * Initial particle: ái chà
  * Initial particle: nào
  * Initial particle: thành thử
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
17 |  Initial particles | 
  * Initial particle: thảo nào/ hèn chi
  * Initial particle: thế thì/ vậy thì
  * Initial particle:vậy còn/ vậy thì
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
18 |  Final exam |  |  |  2 |  3  
####  其他： Others: In-class quizzes 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.