國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：奇幻文學：當代科幻小說，幻想，恐怖 
#####  Course Name: Literature of Fantastic : Contemporary Science Fiction, Fantasy, and Horror
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：551795001 Course No.551795001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文碩一、英博文一、英文碩二、英博文二 Course Department:English/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：羅狼仁 Instructor: PHILLIPS BRIAN-DAVID 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
LITERATURE OF THE FANTASTIC: CONTEMPORARY SCIENCE FICTION, FANTASY, AND HORROR. This course examines the genres of Literature of the Fantastic (Science Fiction, Fantasy, and Horror), the development of imaginative literature to the present, and current trends in genres of the fantastic. Students will consider Literature of the Fantastic (Science Fiction, Fantasy, and Horror) as genre as well as the various subgenres. Most of the readings will be provided in online archival format.
Note, this is a media based course. There will be literary readings as well as television and film materials related to the topic. Students who miss media presentations will have to make up the viewing material on their own time – the instructor is not responsible for providing copies of media missed from absences.
Some of the assignments for this course may be specifically aimed toward video production for the Sparkshow channel on YouTube.
This semester, we will include special sections on the interactive literature, interactive drama, as well as both tabletop and live action roleplaying games as related to Literature of the Fantastic..
This semester, we may include special sections on the use of virtual reality in theatrical form as well as a number of practical explorations in which students will use VR for practical approaches to theatre and intentional theatrical creation.
**Students are encouraged to setup an AI English Study Buddy program. You are strongly encouraged to practice your English skills with the AI Buddy outside of class. While you may use AI to assist you, you must always cite sources and be certain to do major work on your own. AI can make an excellent assistant but the work should still be your own.  
Students should prepare an online drive (Google Drive is suggested) to upload to in order submit periodically class video assignments and other homework on it.  
Obviously, whether we meet in person or online due to pandemic response or other factors will affect some of our course content. Also, obviously, for in-person classes, students may be asked to scan a QR code (in addition to answering roll call as they are different purposes) and wear a mask while observing social distancing. Unless specifically required for pandemic reasons, masks are optional (show common sense and think of others). Be sure to join the class Discord, just in case.**
This course is taught in English in an English environment only. Please note students from outside the English Department who have not taken the prerequisite courses must be able to understand English to an appropriate level for this course.  
人工智慧政策 Policy on Artificial Intelligence
The English Department at National Chengchi University is embarking on an innovative journey to integrate Artificial Intelligence (AI) into our English Language, Literature, TESOL, and Linguistics studies. This integration aligns with our educational goals, aiming to enhance the depth and breadth of our academic offerings. AI technologies, such as natural language processing tools and machine learning algorithms, will provide unique opportunities for personalized language learning, advanced literary analysis, in-depth linguistic research, and other academic pursuits.
Our vision is to leverage these AI tools to create a more dynamic, interactive, and effective learning environment. For example, AI can offer students tailored language exercises based on their proficiency levels or analyze complex literary texts, offering insights that might not be immediately apparent. In linguistics, AI can process large datasets, revealing patterns and trends that inform linguistic theories.
As per English Department policy, individual course instructors are free to set their own policies regulating the use of generative AI tools in their courses, including allowing or disallowing some or all uses of such tools. Course instructors should set such policies in their course syllabi and clearly communicate such policies to students. Students who are unsure of policies regarding generative AI tools are encouraged to ask their instructors for clarification. However, if such policies are not set for a course or particular assignment, the standard approach is as follows.
To give sufficient space for instructors to explore uses of generative AI tools in their courses, and to set clear guidelines to students about what uses are and are not consistent with our department’s policy on academic integrity, the following policy statement is adopted regarding generative AI in the context of coursework.
Absent a clear statement from a course instructor, use of or consultation with generative AI shall be treated analogously to assistance from another person. As you would not ask another person to do your assignments or take your tests for you, you should not ask AI to do your work in a similar manner. In particular, using generative AI tools to substantially complete an assignment or exam (e.g. by entering exam or assignment questions) is not permitted. Students should acknowledge the use of generative AI (other than incidental use) and default to disclosing such assistance when in doubt.
In THIS COURSE, some assignments may explicitly call for the use of AI tools. However, absent such explicit instruction, AI should either not be used or should be used as stated above. In the final revision of their assignments, students should acknowledge any use of AI and state how the technology was used (MLA, APA, Chicago, and other style books now have guides for such acknowledgment).  
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHIJ雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 以多元角度思考分析文學文化專業領域中之特定議題(To examine specific issues in literary and cultural studies from different perspectives)
  * B. 建立英語教學、語言習得一般專業知識(To acquire a knowledge of English teaching and language acquisition)
  * C. 反思社會文化現象並提出個人價值判斷(To reflect on social and cultural phenomena and to make individual value judgments)
  * D. 將專業知識應用到英語教學之相關實務(To apply professional knowledge in English teaching)
  * E. 運用語言學與語言教學相關研究議題之知能(To make practical applications of related researches on linguistics and language teaching)
  * F. 具備深度西方具備深度西方文學理論相關知識以詮釋並批判英美文學作品中所展現之各種文化現象(To gain an in-depth knowledge of Western literary theories in order to interpret or develop a critical understanding of the cultural phenomena in English and American literature)
  * G. 具備深度英語教學相關知識(To gain an in-depth knowledge of English teaching)
  * H. 具備深度英美文學知識，以多元角度思考分析專業領域特定議題 (To gain an in-depth understanding of the development of American and English literature in order to examine specific issues in literary and cultural studies from different perspectives)。 
  * I. 就特定的專業領域進行研究，發表學術論文(To conduct research in specialized fields and to present academic papers)
  * J. 綜合統整各種議題的相關資料，並提出個人獨特、具明顯貢獻的見解 (To develop original and significant critical comments on cultural issues by integrating existent discussions, theories, and historical sources.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
General Learning Outcomes
Specific texts to be discussed will be decided later, dependent upon the research and reading interests of the students. The approach to the material will be chronological and/or topical. Please be aware that the course is very participatory in nature and that a number of videos, television programs, and films will be referenced in class. Periodically, student assignments will be created as content for the student media magazine Sparkshow. Material produced for Sparkshow will be permanently archived and available to the public.
Frequently, students will be expected to read short story, drama, and novel excerpts which are then compared to film adaptations. Students will be asked to write a critical analysis of a piece of literature as compared to a film adaptation of the piece.
This semester, this course may include a special section on Virtual Reality in film, narrative form, and media-based discourse construction. We may also look at AI and Literature of the Fantastic.
This course is taught in English in an English environment only. Please note students from outside the English Department who have not taken the prerequisite courses must be able to understand English to an appropriate level for this course.
General Learning Outcomes
Assessment Tools & Indicators Evaluation Tools Measurements  
Learning Goals & Effectiveness Exams Experience Reports Special Projects Pre/Post Test Other Quiz Blueprint Other Metric  
Have the ability to plan learning and career development path. ※ ※   
Be able to effectively use university learning resources. ※   
Have the ability to read in depth. ※ ※ ※   
Be able to explore and become familiar with new types of digital learning models.   
Develop an attitude and strategy of independent and lifelong learning. ※ ※ ※ ※  
Have teamwork and special production ability. ※ ※
Learning Outcomes and Core Ability Items
To trace the historical and cultural transformations in Western literature in order to understand different cultural perspectives.
Assessment Tools & Indicators Evaluation Tools   
Learning Goals & Effectiveness Exams Essays Papers Speeches Group Discussions Quizes Other Metric  
To read literary classics with an understanding of the culture and the writing characteristics of a specific time in England. ※ ※ ※ ※ ※   
To read literary classics with an understanding of the culture and the writing characteristics of a specific time in America. ※ ※ ※ ※ ※   
To read literary classics with an understanding of the culture and the writing characteristics of a specific time. ※ ※ ※ ※ ※ ※  
To know and appreciate the writing styles of different periods of time and their presentation of literary ideas. ※ ※ ※ ※ ※ ※
To acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for doing research on Western literature and culture in order to develop independent and critical judgment.
Assessment Tools & Indicators Evaluation Tools Measurements  
Learning Goals & Effectiveness Exams Essays Papers Speeches Group Discussions Quizes Other Metric  
To understand the different ideas and the development of specific types of literature. ※ ※ ※   
To understand the themes in Western literature and the relationships between literature and, authors, themes, and culture. ※ ※   
To understand the development of the relationship between current issues and literature. ※ ※ ※  
To understand the development of ideas in literature and to appreciate their cultural values. ※ ※ ※ ※
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
The specific course schedule is To Be Announced. See http://www.briandavidphillips.net/nccu/ for updates as well as the class facebook pages and other resources. See below for additional information on course requirements.
To be announced, based in part upon student background and interest. Some specific authors we may discuss include (listed here to give an impression only): JK Rowling (Harry Potter), JRR Tolkien (Lord of the Rings), Jules Verne (Journey to the Center of the Earth, From the Earth to the Moon), Mary Shelley (Frankenstein), Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (Prof. Challenger stories, Land That Time Forgot), Edgar Rice Burroughs (John Carter of Mars, Buck Rogers), H.G. Wells (War of the Worlds, Time Machine), George Orwell (1984), Ray Bradbury (Martial Chronicles, The Veldt), Andre Norton (varies), Frank Herbert (Dune), Pierre Boule (Planet of the Apes), William Gibson (Johnny Mnemonic, Alien), Piers Anthony (varies), Issac Asimov (I Robot), Arthur C. Clarke (2001), Robert Heinlein (Starship Troopers), Masume Shirow (Ghost in the Shell), John Norman (Gor), Andrew Offut (Spaceways), Gene Rodenbury (Star Trek), George Lucas (Star Wars), Larry Niven (Fuzzy Sapiens), Douglas Adams (Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy), as well as television, comics, and film material of the genre. Much of the actual course content will be based upon participatory decision-making.
Depending upon the number of students and their aptitude, we may incorporate interactive literature materials such as Dungeons & Dragons, Awfully Cheerful Engine, Ghostbusters, The Green Knight, and/or similar works.
Preliminary Schedule (Subject to Change). THIS SCHEDULE IS A PRELIMINARY PLACEHOLDER, THE ACTUAL SCHEDULE WILL COME AFTER INTERACTION WITH STUDENTS TO DETERMINE LEVELS AND INTERESTS.
THURS  
WEEK TOPIC CONTENT & READING ACTIVITIES & HOMEWORK TIME/WEEK HRS  
IN CLASS OUT CLASS  
01  
Introduction Orientation to the Course  
Mythic Structure in Literature and Film  
Orientation to the Course  
Birth of Science Fiction  
The Time Machine by HG Wells Lecture/Media Discussion 3 2  
02  
The Uncanny and Horror as Comedy The Uncanny by Sigmund Freud  
The Troxler Effect  
Shaun of the Dead Lecture/Media Discussion 3 4.5  
03
Virtual Reality An introduction to Virtual Reality  
Introduction to Midterm Essay Assignment Lecture/Media Discussion  
Borrow VR Headsets 3 4.5  
04  
Cultural Impact and Virtual Reality Ready Player One by Ernest Cline Lecture/Media Discussion 3 4.5  
05  
Experiential Reality and Artificial Intelligence Simulacron-3 by Daniel F Galouye  
The Thirteenth Floor Lecture/Media Discussion 3 4.5  
06  
Cross-Cultural Realities Big Trouble In Little China  
Asian Influence and Big Trouble in Little China Lecture/Media Discussion 3 4.5  
07  
Shifting Time/Reality All You Need Is Kill by Hiroshi Sakurazaka  
Edge of Tomorrow Lecture/Media Discussion 3 4.5  
08  
Midterm Essay Presentations Student Midterm Essay Presentations and Round Table Discussions  
Introduction to Final Paper Assignment Lecture/Media Discussion  
Student Presentations  
Return VR Headsets 3 4.5  
09  
Conferences Conferences for Final Paper Discussions  
Topics may not be the same as any student topic presentation. You will be asked to write your paper with a specific publication/conference/journal in mind. Conference Discussion 3 4.5  
10  
Children's Fantasy/Horror Student Presentation One:  
Coraline by Neil Gaiman  
[Example, actual date is Student Choice of Topic.]  
Lecture/Media Discussion  
Student Presentation 3 4.5  
11  
Perception of the Future Student Presentation Two:  
Farenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury  
[Example, actual date is Student Choice of Topic.]  
Lecture/Media Discussion  
Student Presentation 3 4.5  
12  
Gender in Horror Student Presentation Three:  
Interview with a Vampire by Anne Rice  
[Example, actual date is Student Choice of Topic.]  
Lecture/Media Discussion  
Student Presentation 3 4.5  
13  
Future Imagination Student Presentation Four:  
I Robot by Isaac Asimov  
[Example, actual date is Student Choice of Topic.]  
Lecture/Media Discussion  
Student Presentation 3 4.5  
14  
Multiversal Reality Student Presentation Five:  
Illuminatus by Robert Anton Wilson and Robert Shea  
Schrodinger’s Cat Trilogy by Robert Anton Wilson  
[Example, actual date is Student Choice of Topic.]  
Lecture/Media Discussion  
Student Presentation 3 4.5  
15  
Review Review of Major Concepts  
Monomyth Mythic Structure  
Save The Cat Paradigm Lecture/Media Discussion 3 4.5  
16  
Final Paper Presentations Student Final Paper Initial Presentations and Round Table Discussions Lecture/Media Discussion  
Student Presentations 3 4.5  
17*
POST-SESSION ONE TBA ACTIVITY  
LECTURE Final Paper Revision 3 3  
18*
POST-SESSION TWO TBA ACTIVITY  
LECTURE Final Papers Due 3 3
Students will also be asked to perform critical evaluations of their own performances and those of classmates  
Additionally, students will be asked to participate in critical discussion activities. Students will also present informative talks related to playwrights, actors, and/or directors of note.
There may also be occasional pop-quizzes related to weekly readings, lectures, or other course content.
There may also be occasional pop-quizzes related to weekly readings, lectures, or other course content.
Student are Expected to:
For a number of the performance assignments, you may work with others. It is very important that all members of a team do their share of the work on time and be prepared on performance or presentation day.
• Punctual attendance is expected. I do take roll every day. It is your responsibility to find out what went on and to make up the work, ask me for handouts, etc. See general course attendance policies.  
• Come to class with an open and willing mind. The study of literature often involves contemplation of controversial material. As students of literature, it is expected that you will not judge the material but rather attempt to discern the reason behind the expression of ideas.  
• Be prepared to participate in class discussions and activities. You must participate fully. While I will not grade on sheer volume, regular and enthusiastic participation is required. The quality of the participation is the most important factor. Quality covers originality or insight demonstrated as well as clarity of communication.  
• Read assigned readings by the due date - be prepared to discuss.  
• Hand in assignments on time. Assignments are due at the beginning of the class period on the due date.  
• All students in the class are expected to foster respect, communicate with civility, cultivate the ideas of others, and encourage participation.  
• Comprehend that all class activities are vital to the understanding of the literature and should be studied as thoroughly as lecture and reading material.
Working Together: For some of the assignments, you may be asked to work with others. It is very important that all members of a team do their share of the work on time and be prepared on due day.
You MUST have access to a Google Drive for readings and to turn in class assignments.  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.