國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：語法化
#####  Course Name: Grammaticalization
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：555734001 Course No.555734001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：語言碩一、語言博一、語言碩二、語言博二 Course Department:Institute of Linguistics/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：郭岳鑫 Instructor: KUO YUEH-HSIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
Grammaticalisation refers to the process whereby grammatical items or constructions develop. It is typically unidirectional: What’s become grammatical (or more grammatical) doesn’t usually become lexical (or less grammatical). Unidirectionality is a powerful generalisation that allows us to predict or reconstruct the history of an item or construction even in the absence of actual diachronic data. Given how powerful it is, many frameworks of analysis have tried to incorporate it into their theoretical architectures and grammaticalisation studies thus represent one of the most prominent subfields of historical linguistics and syntax. 
In this course we will survey key issues in grammaticalisation, starting from directionality and approaches to grammaticalisation to selected topics in grammatical obsolescence and grammaticalisation in Chinese. While generative and so-called morpheme-based approaches will be introduced, the main focus will be on constructional approaches.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 理論語言學Theoretical linguistics
  * B. 應用語言學Applied linguistics
  * C. 研究能力Research skills
  * D. 外語能力Language skills
  * E. 語言學專業領域Professional abilities in linguistics
  * F. 語言學相關領域Abilities in fields to linguistics
  * G. 研究能力Research skills
  * H. 外語能力Language skills
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
_Course Objectives_ _:_
(1) To introduce students to basic methodologies and topics in grammaticalisation studies;
(2) To develop observational and analytical skills necessary for research on grammaticalisation; 
_Learning Outcomes_ _:_
(1) Academic skills:
(a) Ability to engage critically with previous studies; 
(b) Ability to design own research projects;
(c) Ability to collect and analyse data.
(2) Transferable skills:
(a) Ability to evaluate and process complex information;
(b) Ability to produce complex information in an accessible way.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Week |  Topic |  Reading  
---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction |  Kuteva et al. Ch. 1  
2 |  Directionality |  Norde  
3 |  Trousdale & Norde  
4 |  Approaches |  Croft  
5 |  Kasper  
6 |  Roberts  
7 |  Obsolescence |  Aldridge  
8 |  Kuo   
9 |  Midterm summary Midterm assignment due on 4/20  
10 |  Chinese |  Choose four out of the following papers 1. Kuo W.-J. 2. Kuo Y. H. 3. Li & Wu 4. Liu, & Cuyckens 5. Peng 6. Zhan  
11  
12  
13  
14 |  Holiday  
15 |  Experimental approaches |  Rosemeyer & Grossman  
16 |  Presentations Final paper due on 6/29 (Week 18)  
Each student will give a presentation on one of the assigned readings. The midterm assignment may be either (1) a critique of the assigned reading(s) or (2) a project proposal. The final paper should be a project on a diachronic phenomenon. The final presentation should report findings of the project.
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.