國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：第二語言習得 
#####  Course Name: Second Language Acquisition
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：555939001 Course No.555939001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：語言碩一、語言博一、語言碩二、語言博二 Course Department:Institute of Linguistics/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：黃瓊之 Instructor: HUANG CHIUNG-CHIH 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一D56 Session: mon13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to provide students with an overview of important topics in second language acquisition research. Topics to be covered include the role of the native language, the linguistic environment, learner language, interlanguage processing, social dimensions, individual differences, and instructed second language learning.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The students will obtain an understanding of important issues in second languaeg acquisition research. These issues include the role of the native language, the linguistic environment, learner language, interlanguage processing, social dimensions, individual differences, and instructed second language learning. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
週次Week |  課程主題Course Theme |  課程內容與指定閱讀Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業Activity and Homework |  學習投入時數Estimated time devoted to coursework per week  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授Lecture Hours |  課程前後Preparation Time  
1 |  Introduction |  Introduction |  Lecture and discussion |  3.0 |  4.5  
2 |  Ch. 3. The role of the native language: a historical overview  |  Ch. 3. The role of the native language: a historical overview  |  Lecture and discussion |  3.0 |  4.5  
3 |  Ch. 4 The transition period |  Ch. 4 The transition period |  Lecture and discussion |  3.0 |  4.5  
4 |  Ch. 5. Alternative approaches to the role of previously known languages  |  Ch. 5. Alternative approaches to the role of previously known languages  |  Lecture and discussion |  3.0 |  4.5  
5 |  Ch. 2. Where do data come from? (2.1~2.3.4) |  Ch. 2. Where do data come from? (2.1~2.3.4) |  |  Lecture and discussion |   
---|---  
3.0 |  4.5  
6 |  Ch. 2. Where do data come from? (2.3.5~2.8) |  Ch. 2. Where do data come from? (2.3.5~2.8) |  Lecture and practice |  3.0 |  4.5  
7 |  Learner Corpora |  Learner Corpora |  Lecture and discussion |  3.0 |  4.5  
8 |  Ch. 11. Psycholinguistic constructs and knowledge types  |  Ch. 11. Psycholinguistic constructs and knowledge types  |  Lecture and discussion |  3.0 |  4.5  
9 |  Ch. 12. Interlanguage in context (12.1~12.4.2) |  Ch. 12. Interlanguage in context (12.1~12.4.2) |  Lecture and discussion |  3.0 |  4.5  
10 |  Ch. 12. Interlanguage in context (12.4.3~12.8) |  Ch. 12. Interlanguage in context (12.4.3~12.8) |  Lecture and discussion |  3.0 |  4.5  
11 |  Progress report |  Progress report |  Progress report |  3.0 |  4.5  
12 |  Ch. 13. Input, interaction, and output (13.1~13.6.1) |  Ch. 13. Input, interaction, and output (13.1~13.6.1) |  Lecture and discussion |  3.0 |  4.5  
13 |  Ch. 13. Input, interaction, and output (13.6.2~13.9) |  Ch. 13. Input, interaction, and output (13.6.2~13.9) |  Lecture and discussion |  3.0 |  4.5  
14 |  Ch. 15. Learner-internal influences (15.1~15.5) |  Ch. 15. Learner-internal influences (15.1~15.5) |  Lecture and discussion |  3.0 |  4.5  
15 |  Ch. 15. Learner-internal influences (15.6~15.10) |  Ch. 15. Learner-internal influences (15.6~15.10) |  Lecture and discussion |  3.0 |  4.5  
16 |  Project presentation |  Project presentation |  Project presentation |  3.0 |  4.5  
17 |  Flexible supplemental instruction |  Flexible supplemental instruction |  |  3.0 |  4.5  
18 |  Paper due (by 4:00 pm) |  Paper due (by 4:00 pm) |  |  3.0 |  4.5  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.