國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：中東衝突專題
#####  Course Name: Topics on Conflicts of the Middle East
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：560937001 Course No.560937001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：中東亞一、中東亞二 Course Department:Master Program in Middle Eastern and Central Asian Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：張景安 Instructor: CHANG CHING-AN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16 
##  課程簡介Course Description
Since the beginning of the twentieth century, numerous important conflicts, varying in scale, have erupted in the Middle East. Whenever mainstream media mentions the Middle East, it seems that it is usually related to instability. But the question is why there are so many wars and conflicts in this area? And what are the influences of these conflicts on the people in this area?
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 專業創新
  * B. 人文關懷
  * C. 國際視野
  * D. 具備中東中亞政經文社整合知識
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course discusses the origins and developments of significant wars in the Middle East during the 20th and 21st centuries. The course consists of five parts: 1) theoretical debates of conflict theory, 2) the historical context of the conflicts, 3) the major wars and conflicts, 4) the issues of the conflicts, and 5) the development and impact of the conflict. The first three parts will be taught in the first semester, and the latter in the second semester. After the course, the student should have a general understanding of the formation, development, and impact of the conflicts in the Middle East.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 (2/19) |  Introduction | 
  1. Sorli, Mirham E., Gleditsch, N. P., and Strand, H. (2005) ‘Why Is There So Much Conflict in the Middle East?’ _Journal of Conflict Resolution_ , 49: 1. 
  2. Mather, Y. (2014) ‘The Fall of the Ottoman Empire and Current,’ _Critique: Journal of Socialist Theory_ , 42: 3. 
| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
|  3 |  6  
Theoretical debates of conflict theory  
2 (2/26) |  Conflict theory | 
  1. Bartos, O. J. and Wehr, P. (2002) _Using Conflict Theory_ , Cambridge: Cambridge University Press (Ch. 1-3).
  2. Long, W. J. and Brecke, P. (2003) _War and Reconciliation: Reason and Emotion in Conflict Resolution_ , Massachusetts: The MIT Press (Ch. 1).
  3. Matyok, T., Senehi, J. and Byrne, S. eds. (2011) _Critical Issues in Peace and Conflict Studies_ , UK: Rowman & Littlefield Education (Ch. 1).
| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar
|  3 |  6  
3 (3/5) |  Clash of Civilization vs. Orientalism, and Colonialism | 
  1. Hauk, E. and Muller, H. (2015) ‘Cultural Leaders and the Clash of Civilizations,’ _Journal of Conflict Resolution_ , 59: 3. 
  2. Media Education Foundation (2005) _Edward Said: The Myth of ‘the Clash of Civilizations.'_
  3. Choueiri, Y. M. ed. (2005) _A Companion to the History of the Middle East_ , Oxford: Blackwell Publishing (Ch. 13).
  4. Hardy, Roger (2017) _The poisoned well: empire and its legacy in the Middle East_. Oxford: Oxford University Press (Epilogue).
  1. Stop Blaming Colonial Borders for the Middle.
| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar
|  3 |  6  
4 (3/12) |  WW 1 & 2 and the Cold War | 
  1. Ulrichsen, K. C. (2014) _The First World War in the Middle East_ , Oxford: Oxford University Press (Ch. 7). 
  2. Jacobs, M. F. (2014) ‘World War 1: A War (and Peace?) for the Middle East,’ _Diplomatic History_ , 38: 4.
  3. Cleveland, William L. and Bunton, Martin (2009) _A History of the Modern Middle East_ , , Boulder: Westview (p. 191, 201-204, 211-213, 228-230, 233-234, 261-267).
  4. Khalidi, R. (2009) _Sowing Crisis: The COld War and American Dominance in the Middle East,_ Boston: Beacon Press (Intro.).
  5. Barrett, R. C. (2007) _The Greater Middle East and the Cold War: US Foreign Policy Under Eisenhower and Kennedy_ , London: I.B. TAURIS (Ch. 6).
| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar
|  3 |  6  
Historical context of the conflicts  
5 (3/19) |  Four wars between the Arab countries and Israel: 1948, 1956, 1967, and 1973 | 
  1. Milton-Edwards and Hinchcliffe, P. (2001) _Conflicts in the Middle East since 1945_ , New York: Routledge (Ch. 2). 
  2. _A Companion to the History of the Middle East_(Ch. 14).
  3. Varble, D. (2003) _The Suez Crisis 1956_ , Oxford: Osprey Publishing (p.7-14, p.21-72, p. 91-92).
  4. Oren, M. B. (2002) _Six Days of War: June 1967 and the Making of the Making of the Modern Middle East_ , New York: Oxford University Press ( p.1-32, 305-327).
  5. Sindawi, K. and Kahana, E. (2015) The Yom Kippur War: The Successes of Israeli Intelligence, _International Journal of Intelligence and CounterIntelligence_ , 28: 4.
  6. Siniver, A. (2013) _The Yom Kippur War: Politics, Legacy, Diplomacy_ , Oxford: Oxford University Press (Ch. 1).
| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar
|  3 |  6  
Major wars and conflicts  
6 (3/26) |  1979 Islamic revolution & Iran-Iraq war | 
  1. Abrahamian, E. (2008) A History of Modern Iran, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press (Ch. 6).
  2. Arjomand, S. A. (1988) The Turban for the Grown: The Islamic Revolution in Iran, Oxford: Oxford University Press (Ch. 5 & 6).
  3. Donovan, J. (2011) _The Iran-Iraq War: Antecedents and conflict escalation_ , London: Routledge (Ch. 1, 2, 6).
| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar
|  3 |  6  
7 (4/2) |  Intercollegiate Activities  |  No class! |  |  |   
8 (4/9) |  Midterm |  No class! |  |  |   
9 (4/16) |  Iraq vs. Kuwait 1990 & US invasion of Iraq 2003 | 
  1. _Conflicts in the Middle East since 1945_ (Ch. 8).
  2. Long, J. M. (2004) _Saddam’s War of Words: Politics, Religions, and the Iraqi Invasion of Kuwait_ , Austin: University of Texas Press (Ch.2 & 3).
  1. Ritchie, N. and Rogers, P. (2007) _The Political Road to War with Iraq: Bush, 9/11 and the drive to overthrow Saddam_ , London: Routledge (Ch. 6-9).
| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar
|  3 |  6  
10 (4/23) |  Sectarian conflict | 
  1. Fanar Haddad,  _Sectarianism in Iraq: Antagonistic Visions of Unity_ , Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2011 (Ch. 2).
  2. Geneive Abdo,  _The New Sectarianism: The Arab Uprisings and the Rebirth of the Shi'a-Sunni Divide_ , Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2017 (Intro.).
  3. Aaron Reese,  _Sectarian and Regional Conflict in the Middle East_ , Institute for the Study of War (2013).
  4. Milton-Edwards and Hinchcliffe, P. (2001)  _Conflicts in the Middle East since 1945_ , New York: Routledge (Ch. 5).
  5. Abdo,  _The New Sectarianism_ (Ch. 5).
| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar
|  3 |  6  
Issues of the conflicts  
11 (4/30) |  Ethnic and resource conflict | 
  1. Leonard Binder,  _Ethnic Conflict and International Politics in the Middle_ , University Press of Florida (1999) (Intro.)
  2. David Romano and Gurses, M. ed., Conflict, Democratization, and the Kurds in the Middle East Turkey Iran Iraq and Syria, New York: Palgrave macmillan, 2014 (Ch. 1-4)
  3. Toby Craig Jones, America, Oil, and War in the Middle East,  _The Journal of American History_ , 99:1 (2012).
  4. Christine Drake, Water Resource Conflicts in the Middle East,  _Journal of Geography_ , 96:1 (1997).
| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar
|  3 |  6  
12 (5/7) |  Arab Spring | 
  1. Larbi Sadiki ed.,  _Routledge Handbook of the Arab Spring: Rethinking Democratization_ , London: Routledge, 2015 (Ch. 5-6).
  2. Sadiki ed.,  _Routledge Handbook of the Arab Spring_ (Ch. 9, 11, 12).
| 
  1. Preview
  2. Lecture
  3. seminar
|  3 |  6  
Development and impact of the conflict  
13 (5/14) |  Democracy vs peace, and extremism | 
  1. Mahmood Mamdani, Good Muslim, Bad Muslim: A Political Perspective on Culture and Terrorism,  _American Anthropologist_ , 104:3 (2002).
  2. Edwards and Hinchcliffe, P.  _Conflicts in the Middle East since 1945_(Ch. 4).
  3. Amin Saikal and Schnabel, A.,  _Democratization in the Middle East: Experiences, struggles, challenges_ , Tokyo: United Nations University Press, 2003 (Ch. 1-2).
| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar
|  3 |  6  
14 (5/21) |  University anniversary |  No class! |  |  |   
15 (5/28) |  Forced migration |  Akm Ahsan Ullah,  _Refugee politics in the Middle East and North Africa Human Rights, Safety, and Identity_ , London: Palgrave Macmillan, 2014 (Ch. 2). | 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar
|  3 |  6  
16 (6/4) |  Group presentation |  Presentations. |  |  3 |  6  
17 (6/11) |  Essay |  Essay preparation |  No class. |  |   
18 (6/18) |  Essay |  Essay submission. |  The students should hand in their essays this week. |  |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.