國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：選修英文：閱讀與口語訓練
#####  Course Name: English Elective: Reading & Oral Training
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：599793021 Course No.599793021
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中心 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center/B/0 
  * 授課老師：陳綉諭 Instructor: CHEN HSIU-YU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12 
##  課程簡介Course Description
_Reading and Oral Training_ is a one-semester course for high-intermediate to advanced learners of English. The course, which is conducted in English, is designed to acclimate students to using English as a tool for advanced communication. During the course, students will enhance their reading and speaking skills through lectures, pair/group discussions, oral presentations, role-play, writing assignments, watching films, and other in-class activities. Students will become familiar with different communication styles and methods of organization for handling discussion and presentation of contemporary issues through a combination of reading materials and speaking exercises on various subjects from different sources, such as novels, news media, blog posts, and academic articles. Students will also learn to summarize texts, analyze structure (through outlining), compare and contrast, and give opinions, which can be extended to more advanced reading skills, e.g. identifying facts and opinions, and making inferences in class.  
---  
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The main goals of this course are to enhance students’ reading and oral fluency through reading texts of various genres related to course topics and then participating in discussions and giving formal presentations.
Learning outcomes:
By the end of the semester, those who have satisfactorily completed the course requirements will have:
  * developed the ability to read authentic texts of various subjects in an efficient manner;
  * sharpened their oral skills to confidently express opinions in both formal and informal contexts, and to analyze and critique the oral communication of oneself and others;
  * learned to organize and deliver formal presentations in front of an audience
  * demonstrated skills such as appropriate selection of topics and materials, clear organization, and the ability to evaluate and synthesize materials from diverse sources and then integrate multiple perspectives into oral presentations;
  * developed their abilities to write summaries, reflections and responses on the assigned readings; and
  * improved their ability to listen effectively, using critical and reflective thinking when responding to communication events such as the teacher’s lectures, classmates’ speeches, and discussions with peers.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 |  Course orientation | 
  * Introduction to the course
  * Moodle classroom
|  Pick one piece of writing to share with the class. |  3 |  4.5  
2 |  Get started! |  _What is reading to you?_ |  Share your reading experience with the class |  3 |  4.5  
3 |  The Anxious Generation |  _“Puberty and the Blocked Transition to Adulthood, 1”_ |  What is adulthood in your understanding? |  3 |  4.5  
4 | The Anxious Generation | _“Puberty and the Blocked Transition to Adulthood, 2”_ |  Do you know what to expect and are you ready for adulthood? |  3 |  4.5  
5 | The Anxious Generation |  _“The Four Fundational Harms, 1”_ |  Can you live without your phone? |  3 |  4.5  
6 | The Anxious Generation | _“The Four Fundational Harms, 2”_ |  Do you feel the harms in yourself? |  3 |  4.5  
7 |  Film watching |  _“Yes Man”_ |  What is your “Yes or No” philosophy? |  3 |  4.5  
8 |  Midterm presentation |  Presentation |  Oral presentation |  3 |  4.5  
9 |  Midterm presentation |  Presentation |  Oral presentation |  3 |  4.5  
10 |  The Catcher in the Rye |  Part 1 |  Were you a happy 16-year-old? |  3 |  4.5  
11 |  The Catcher in the Rye |  Part 2 |  In search for your true self? |  3 |  4.5  
12 |  The Catcher in the Rye | Part 3 |  Sex, love and identity? |  3 |  4.5  
13 | The Catcher in the Rye | Part 4 |  Family and the sense of belonging. |  3 |  4.5  
14 | The Catcher in the Rye | Part 5 |  Conclusion |  3 |  4.5  
15 |  Final presentation |  Presentation |  Oral presentation |  3 |  4.5  
16 |  Final presentation |  Presentation |  Oral presentation |  3 |  4.5  
17 | Self-learning | Reflection | Reflection essay |  |   
18 | Self-learning | Reflection | Reflection essay |  |   
First hour: lecture; second hour: group presentation and class discussion; third hour: weekly news. Weekly news is the time when each student gets 10 minutes to share one new thing with the class. It can be as small as a personal story, or as big as an international headline. 
Ten group presentations. Each group is responsible for the topic of the week. The task is to prepare a 15-minute presentation and 5 discussion questions. 
1 group oral presentation 20%, 1 midterm presentation 20%, 1 weekly news 20%, 1 group final presentation 20% and class participation 20%.
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.