國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：選修英文：英文寫作
#####  Course Name: English Elective: Essay Writing
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：599795001 Course No.599795001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中心 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center/B/0 
  * 授課老師：黃淑真 Instructor: HUANG SHU-CHEN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
Essay Writing is designed to help learners write college-level essays. We will start with a number of essay examples and analysis of their organization, content, lexis, and grammatical structures. As we proceed, learners will become aware of the common criteria and standards for good essays and, moreover, evaluate their own work against these standards. It is hoped that once learners realize the gap between what they are expected to do and what they can do, they will be able to strategically plan their learning and move forward accordingly. After lectures on key concepts, several in-class timed writing exercises are arranged to help learners practice what they know. Follow-up discussions of these in-class essay drafts then prepare learners for self-revision to improve the quality of essays.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the semester, learners who have fulfilled the course requirements are expected to have acquired the following.
  * Knowledge about essay writing principles and strategies,
  * Familiarity with and experiences of using popular writing resources such as online dictionaries, thesauruses, corpora, concordancers, etc.
  * Common awareness of writing criteria and standards expected of college students,
Peer and self-editing abilities as well as revision techniques.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Week |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and Homework  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction |  Writing Exercises |   
2 |  The Writing Process |  Criteria of and Expectations for Good Essays |  Explore Writing Tasks in Standardized English Examinations  
3 |  Essay Structure  |  Topic Sentence |   
4 |  Classification Essay 1/3 |  Cohesion |  Writing the First Draft  
5 |  Classification Essay 2/3 |  Coherence |  Peer Review  
6 |  Classification Essay 3/3 |  Supporting the Topic |  Revision and Proofreading  
7 |  Comparison Essay 1/3 |  Definition and Explanation |  Writing the First Draft  
8 |  Comparison Essay 2/3 |  Giving Examples |  Peer Review  
9 |  Comparison Essay 3/3 |  Various Types of Clauses |  Revision and Proofreading  
10 |  Cause-effect Essay 1/3 |  Grammar Exercises |  Writing the First Draft  
11 |  Cause-effect Essay 2/3 |  Building Vocabulary |  Peer Review  
12 |  Cause-effect Essay 3/3 |  Paragraph Transitions  |  Revision and Proofreading  
13 |  Argument Essay 1/3 |  Online Writing Resources |  Writing the First Draft  
14 |  Argument Essay 2/3 |  Academic Style |  Peer Review  
15 |  Argument Essay 3/3 |  Doing Research |  Revision and Proofreading  
16 |  Final Examination  
17 |  Summative Individual Conferences  
18 |  Summative Individual Conferences  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.