國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：大學外文（二）：波蘭文 
#####  Course Name: College Foreign Language II : Polish
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：599916001 Course No.599916001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中心 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center/B/0 
  * 授課老師：羅百德 Instructor: Robert Biryndo 
  * 先修科目：[ 大學外文（一）：波蘭文(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([])
  * 上課時間：二567 Session: tue14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
In this language course students will learn the four basic skills (speaking, listening, reading and writing) in the context of major themes in Polish culture. The course consists of 24 units, including two special units about Christmas Easter. Each unit of the course includes various exercises developing listening comprehension, reading, speaking and writing skills. The course employs authentic materials, such as diagrams, leaflets, restaurant menus, cinema schedules, train or bus timetables, a departures and arrivals board, exchange rates etc. Students will work with authentic texts and dialogues in the context of everyday Polish life.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the course students will be able to describe people, events and situations, both in the present, the future and the past, and will have acquired the necessary vocabulary to communicate about everyday situations.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |   
---|---|---|---|---  
1-2 |  Unit 16 |  Talking about past events |  Selected listening and writing exercises of the textbook and the workbook. |   
3-4 |  Unit 17 |  Describing the location |  Selected listening and writing exercises of the textbook and the workbook. |   
5-6 |  Unit 18 |  The weather |  Selected listening and writing exercises of the textbook and the workbook. |   
7-8 |  Unit 19 |  Expressing possibilities, desires and needs |  Selected listening and writing exercises of the textbook and the workbook. |   
9-10 |  Unit 20 |  Asking for the information, expressing time events (process, facts, results)  |  Selected listening and writing exercises of the textbook and the workbook. |   
11-12 |  Unit 21 |  Talking about travelling, summer vacations, means of transportation |  Selected listening and writing exercises of the textbook and the workbook. |   
13-14 |  Unit 22 |  Expressing preferences and wishes. Names of holidays and festivals.  |  Selected listening and writing exercises of the textbook and the workbook. |   
15-16 |  Unit 23 |  Body parts and health. Talking about future events and dreams.  |  Selected listening and writing exercises of the textbook and the workbook. |   
17 |  Review Units 16-23 |  Review of units 16-23 |  Selected listening and writing exercises of the textbook and the workbook. |   
18 |  Final exam |  Final exam |  Selected listening and writing exercises of the textbook and the workbook. |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.