國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際智慧財產權法專題研究（三）
#####  Course Name: Seminar on International Intellectual Property Law (III)
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：601354001 Course No.601354001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：法律三甲、法律三乙、法律三丙、法律四甲、法律四乙、法律四丙 Course Department:Law/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：陳龍昇、謝祥揚 Instructor: CHEN LUNG-SHENG/HSIEH HSIANG-YANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四EF Session: thu18-20
##  課程簡介Course Description
This seminar will provide students with an opportunity to conduct independent research on a topic in the area of intellectual property, broadly construed. Papers in the areas of patent, copyright, trademark, cyberlaw, e-commerce, biotechnology, right of publicity, open source, trade secret, and unfair competition are all welcome. Students in this seminar will have opportunities to conduct in-depth study and analysis of topics presenting some of the most pressing issues raised by modern research activities. 
The goal of this seminar is to allow a student to engage in independent research and analysis. Besides developing an in-depth understanding of their paper topic, students will focus on improving their research and writing abilities. Students will meet with the instructor on an individual basis to discuss their presentations and paper ideas. They will be required to submit a paper proposal, a first draft, and a final version of their paper. The instructors will provide feedback to the students on their first draft and will evaluate final drafts based on the quality of the student's research, analysis, writing style, organization of issues, grammar, and citation style. Final drafts will ordinarily be between 15 and 20 pages of text. Students will also be required to present and discuss their ideas with the rest of the class. Grades will be based primarily on the quality of students' first and final drafts; oral presentations and class participation will also be taken into account. (This seminar is not graded anonymously because the professor works with students on their writing projects throughout the semester.)
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 專業知識
  * B. 實務運用
  * C. 表達溝通
  * D. 社會參與
  * E. 人文關懷
  * F. 國際視野
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This seminar aims to allow a student to engage in independent research and analysis. Besides developing an in-depth understanding of their paper topic, students will focus on improving their research and writing abilities.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
The seminar will meet regularly, except for a few weeks in which I will meet with you to discuss your presentations and papers (see below). The first class meeting will be devoted to an overview of general issues relevant to the course. The second class will focus on research and writing skills. After a break of a few weeks, during which I will meet with you individually, we will begin student-led discussions as described below. 
1. 2/20 General Introduction
2. 2/27 Guidance on Research and Writing 
  * Materials to be distributed
(1) Eugene Volokh, Writing a Student Article, 48 J. LEGAL EDUC. 247 (1998).
  * Bring your laptop to class for the Westlaw database training
3. 3/06 AI & Patent: The European Patent Office DABUS case
  * Reading assignments:
(2) J 0008/20 (Designation of inventor/DABUS) 21-12-2021 (Decision of the Board of Appeals for the European Patent Office)
  * 【Presentation drawing】
4. 3/13 AI & Copyright authorship: The U.S. Copyright Office Zarya of the Dawn case
  * Reading assignments:
(3) U.S. Copyright Office, Letter re: Zarya of the Dawn (Registration # VAu001480196) (Feb. 21, 2023), _available at:_ https://copyright.gov/docs/zarya-of-the-dawn.pdf 
  * 【Sign up for Mandatory Individual Meeting】
5. 3/20 AI & Copyright fair use: The New York Times vs. OpenAI & Microsoft case
  * Reading assignments
(4) The Times’s complaint: 
https://nytco-assets.nytimes.com/2023/12/NYT_Complaint_Dec2023.pdf
(5) Open AI’s response:
https://openai.com/blog/openai-and-journalism 
  * 【Two-page proposal】Please turn in a hard copy of your proposal in class.
6. 3/27 Work on presentations and draft 
7. 4/03 No class (National Holiday)
8. 4/10 Work on presentations and draft
9. 4/17 【Mandatory individual meetings】
10. 4/24 Guest Speaker: TBD
  * 【First draft due by P.M. 5:00, April 24th】Please uploads your first draft file in the format of a Word document to Moodle.
11. 5/01 Student presentations and discussions
12. 5/08 Student presentations and discussions
13. 5/15 Student presentations and discussions
14. 5/22 Student presentations and discussions
15. 5/29 Student presentations and discussions
16. 6/05 Wrap up【Final draft due by P.M. 5:00, June 5th】
  * Please upload your final draft file in Word format to Moodle.
Below is a list of possible paper topics. You may want to read a little about various topics to see which interests you most.
For topic selection, there will be a lottery in which you will draw numbers. The person who draws number 1 will have the first chance to choose his or her topic, number 2 the second chance, and so on. There are more possible topics than
seminar students so everyone will have some choice in the matter. After topics are assigned, we will give each of you
readings that supply background information on your topic and will help you begin to plan your paper.
There are many possible paper topics within each broad topic below. Once you have your general topic assignments, I will meet with you individually to help you determine precisely what legal or policy issues you would like to analyze. Our goal in assigning general topic areas is to save you time. When students choose topics on their own, it often takes 3-4 weeks to settle on a topic. Research and writing is time-consuming, and you will find that you need these weeks to begin researching and then drafting your paper.
【Seminar Paper Topics】
1. Artificial Intelligence Policy across the nation
2. AI and patent (inventorship)
3. AI and patent (eligibility)
4. AI and copyright (authorship)
5. AI training and copyright fair use
6. NFT and trademark
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.