國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：人際關係
#####  Course Name: Psychology of Interpersonal Relationships
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：702883001 Course No.702883001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：心理三 Course Department:Psychology/B/3 
  * 授課老師：吳庭達 Instructor: NG TING-TAT 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
Interpersonal relationships, including both friendships and romantic relationships, are essential to people’s lives. This course will introduce the psychological concepts and theories about interpersonal relationships. We will also discuss and evaluate the classic and contemporary findings of interpersonal relationships. We will address several essential questions about interpersonal relationships including but not limited to: Why are we attracted to some people but not others? How well do we know our partners? How to form and maintain successful relationships? How does sexuality matter in romantic relationships?
_*This course is taught in English._
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 心理學專業能力 Professional knowledge of psychology
  * B. 思考與問題解決能力 Thinking and problem solving skills
  * C. 人際互動能力 Social skills
  * D. 多元文化關懷 Multiculturalism
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Course Objectives |  Assessment Tools  
---|---  
Mid-term exam |  Final exam |  Group project |  Class participation  
Describe the theories, concepts, and methodology of interpersonal relationships |  ※ |  ※ |  |   
Understand the importance of various psychological processes in influencing interpersonal relationships |  ※ |  ※ |  |  ※  
Evaluate the credibility and generalizability of recent empirical findings on interpersonal relationships |  |  ※ |  ※ |  ※  
Apply the theories and concepts of interpersonal relationships to real-life contexts so as to foster better relationships |  |  ※ |  ※ |  ※  
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activitiesand Homework |  學習投入時間Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside- of-class Hours  
1 (2/18) |  Introduction to relationship science |  Miller (2022) Ch. 1, 2 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  3  
2 (2/25) |  Attraction |  Miller (2022) Ch. 3 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
3 (3/4) |  Social cognition |  Miller (2022) Ch. 4 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos _*Submission of group member list_ |  3 |  5  
4 (3/11) |  Communication |  Miller (2022) Ch. 5 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
5 (3/18) |  Interdependency |  Miller (2022) Ch. 6 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
6 (3/25) |  Friendship |  Miller (2022) Ch. 7 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
7 (4/1) |  Romantic relationships |  Miller (2022) Ch. 8 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
8 (4/8) |  Mid-term Exam |  Contents of Week 1 – Week 6 |  Mid-term exam |  3 |  8  
9 (4/15) |  Sexuality |  Miller (2022) Ch. 9 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
10 (4/22) |  Stress and conflict |  Miller (2022) Ch. 10, 11 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
11 (4/29) |  Relationship dissolution |  Miller (2022) Ch. 12, 13 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
12 (5/6) |  Enhancing relationships |  Miller (2022) Ch. 14 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
13 (5/13) |  Revision and project consultation |  Project consultation for each group  |  Project consultation |  3 |  5  
14 (5/20) |  Class Presentation (I) |  Presentation and Q&A |  Class presentation |  3 |  5  
15 (5/27) |  Class Presentation (II) |  Presentation and Q&A |  Class presentation |  3 |  5  
16 (6/3) |  Final Exam |  Contents of Week 7, Week 9 – 12 |  Final exam |  3 |  8  
17 (6/10) |  _Self-directed study_ |  / |  _Self-directed study_ |  / |  5  
18 (6/17) |  _Self-directed study_ |  / |  _Self-directed study_ |  / |  5  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.