國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：判斷和決策
#####  Course Name: Judgment and Decision Making
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：702880001 Course No.702880001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：心理三 Course Department:Psychology/B/3 
  * 授課老師：吳庭達 Instructor: NG TING-TAT 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
With little effort, we can process complex information and make judgment and decisions within a short period of time. Yet, most people remain largely unaware of how their minds accomplish complex tasks. This course describes a comprehensive framework on how people make judgment and decisions, describes various biases and heuristics that can influence judgment and choice, when and who cooperate or defect in social dilemmas, how people make moral judgment and decisions, and provides important insights on how to make better decisions in both daily life and organizations.
_*This course is taught in English._
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 心理學專業能力 Professional knowledge of psychology
  * B. 思考與問題解決能力 Thinking and problem solving skills
  * C. 人際互動能力 Social skills
  * D. 多元文化關懷 Multiculturalism
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes |  Assessment Tools  
---|---  
Mid-term exam |  Final exam |  Group project |  Class participation  
Describe and analyze various factors that can affect people’s judgment, choice, and decision-making |  ※ |  ※ |  |   
Understand various biases, heuristics, and potential flaws that can lead us make poor judgment and decisions |  ※ |  ※ |  ※ |   
Critically evaluate the credibility and generalizability of recent empirical findings of judgment and decision making |  |  ※ |  ※ |  ※  
Provide practical suggestions on how to make better decisions in both daily life and organizations |  |  |  ※ |  ※  
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching ActivitiesandHomework |  學習投入時間Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside- of-class Hours  
1 (2/19) |  Introduction |  Bazerman & Moore (2012) Ch. 1 |  Lecture and videos |  3 |  3  
2 (2/26) |  Intuitive & deliberative thinking |  Kahneman (2011)  
Ch. 1 – 3 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
3 (3/5) |  Overconfidence Common heuristics and biases |  Bazerman & Moore (2012) Ch. 2, 3 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
4 (3/12) |  Framing |  Bazerman & Moore (2012) Ch. 5 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
5 (3/19) |  Bounded awareness Escalation of commitment |  Bazerman & Moore (2012) Ch. 4, 7 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
6 (3/26) |  Risk and uncertainty |  Figner & Weber (2011). Slovic & Peters (2006) |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
7 (4/2) |  _Intercollegiate activities (No class)_ |  _Mid-term exam preparation_ |  / |  / |  6  
8 (4/9) |  Mid-term Exam |  Contents of Week 1 – 6 |  Mid-term exam |  3 |  8  
9 (4/16) |  Moral judgment and decisions |  Bazerman & Moore (2012) Ch. 8 Graham et al. (2011) |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
10 (4/23) |  Social dilemmas I |  Baron (2007) Ch. 18 Van Lange et al. (2013) |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
11 (4/30) |  Social dilemmas II |  Rand et al. (2012) Thielmann et al. (2020) |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
12 (5/7) |  Delayed discounting Negotiation |  Baron (2007) Ch. 19 Green & Myerson (2004) Bazerman & Moore (2012) Ch. 10 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
13 (5/14) |  Common investment mistakes Improving decision making |  Bazerman & Moore (2012) Ch. 9, 12 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
14 (5/21) |  _University anniversary (No class)_ |  _Final exam preparation_ |  / |  / |  6  
15 (5/28) |  Proposal Outline Presentation |  Presentation |  Proposal outline presentation and peer feedback & suggestions |  3 |  6  
16 (6/4) |  Final Exam |  Contents of Week 9 – 13 |  Final exam |  3 |  8  
17 (6/11) |  _Final report preparation_ |  N/A |  _Final report_ |  / |  5  
18 (6/18) |  _Final report preparation_ |  N/A |  _Final report_ |  / |  5  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.