國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：政治經濟學
#####  Course Name: Political Economy
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：862007001 Course No.862007001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國研碩一、國研碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in International Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：張珈健 Instructor: CHANG CHIA-CHIEN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四567 Session: thu14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
## Course Description
## This seminar is intended to provide a systematic introduction to the political economy of international relations. Readings and writing assignments are designed to explore the usefulness of alternative analytical and theoretical perspectives in addressing the central questions of actor behavior and system governance in the world economy. The aim throughout the course is to encourage students to read and think critically when addressing the literature of International Political Economy.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 掌握國際安全或國際合作發展實務與理論
  * B. 統整與分析國際資訊
  * C. 培養國際移動能力與國際公民價值
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The course aims to apply theoretical and analytical concepts to understand how the political and economic determinants, such as the structures of state-market relations, socio-economic contexts, and transitional forces affect related economics' policy options and development. The learning objectives of this course are (1) to gain theoretical knowledge and contextual effects of interests, institutions, strategic integration, and ideas; (2) to familiarize with conceptual and empirical knowledge of the local process of economies and political dynamics; (3) to understand the economic development and political impacts of East Asia and other countries in a comparative perspective and within a regional/global context. We will attempt to use the interests, institutions, strategic interaction and ideas, combined with analytical levels of analysis (individual, domestic, systemic) to understand the “causes” of policy decisions, choices, and their outcomes.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 | Introduction: What is Political Economy (2/20) |  Introducing the syllabus Main Theme: What is Political Economy |  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  3  
2 | The Theoretical Paradigms & Analytical perspectives of IPE (2/27) | 
  * Robert Gilpin, 2001 _Global Political Economy_. [This is an updated version of Gilpin, _The Political Economy of International Relations_ , 1987.] Ch. 1-2
  * David Lake (2009), “Open Economy Politics: A Critical Review,” _Review of International Organizations_ 4:3, 219-244. 
  * Thomas Oatley (2011), “The Reductionist Gamble: Open Economy Politics in the Global Economy,” _International Organization_ 65:2 (Spring), 311-341. 
  * Hobson, J., & Seabrooke, L. (Eds.). (2007). _Everyday Politics of the World Economy_. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Ch.1 (Introduction) doi:10.1017/CBO9780511491375
  * Hafner-Burton, E. M., Haggard, S., Lake, D. A., & Victor, D. G. (2017). The Behavioral Revolution and International Relations.  _International Organization_ ,  _71_(S1), S1–S31. http://www.jstor.org/stable/44651962
  * Davis, J. W., & McDermott, R. (2021). The Past, Present, and Future of Behavioral IR.  _International Organization_ ,  _75_(1), 147–177. https://www.jstor.org/stable/27104630
|  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
3 | The Political Economy of International Trade (3/6) | 
  * *Michael Hiscox (2001), “Class Versus Industry Cleavages: Inter-Industry Factor Mobility and the Politics of Trade,” _International Organization_ 55:1 (Winter), 1-46. 
  * *Helen Milner with Keiko Kubota (2005), “Why the Move to Free Trade? Democracy and Trade Policy in the Developing Countries,” _International Organization_ 59:1 (Winter), 107-143. 
  * *Gowa, Joanne S., and Edward D. Mansfield. 1993. “Power Politics and International Trade.” _American Political Science Review_ 87 (2): 408–20. (12 pp.)
  * *Diana C. Mutz and Eunji Kim, “The Impact of In-Group Favoritism on Trade Preferences,” International Organization 71, no. 4 (ed 2017): 827–50.
  * Rogowski R. Political Cleavages and Changing Exposure to Trade.  _American Political Science Review_. 1987;81(4):1121-1137. doi:10.2307/1962581
  * Matthew DiGiuseppe & Katja B. Kleinberg (2019) Economics, security, and individual-level preferences for trade agreements,  _International Interactions_ , 45:2, 289-315, DOI: 10.1080/03050629.2019.1551007
  * Jeffry Frieden, Attitudes, Interests, and the Politics of Trade: A Review Article,  _Political Science Quarterly_ , Volume 137, Issue 3, Fall 2022, Pages 569–588, https://doi.org/10.1002/polq.13360
# Brutger, R., Chaudoin, S. & Kagan, M. "Trade Wars and Election Interference."  _Rev Int Organ_ 18 , 1–25 (2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/s11558-022-09464-2 |  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
4 | The Political Economy of International Finance and Financial Crises (3/13) | 
  * *Jeffry Frieden (1991), “Invested Interests: The Politics of National Economic Policies in a World of Global Finance,” _International Organization_ 45:4 (Autumn), 425-451.
  * *Simmons BA. Rulers of the game: central bank independence during the interwar years.  _International Organization_. 1996;50(3):407-443. doi:10.1017/S0020818300033439; or 
    * *Best, J. (2025). The fragility of depoliticization: revisiting the history of Central bank inflation-management.  _Review of International Political Economy_ , 1–27. https://doi.org/10.1080/09692290.2024.2444365
  * *Lee, Y. W., & Lim, K. (2024). Status quo crisis again? RMB challenges and dollar hegemony.  _New Political Economy_ ,  _29_(5), 709–732. https://doi.org/10.1080/13563467.2024.2332348
  * *Lipscy, Phillip Y. 2018. “Democracy and Financial Crisis.” _International Organization_ 72 (04): 937–68. (31 pp.)
  * *Lipscy, Phillip Y. and Lee, Haillie Na-Kyung 2019. “The IMF As a Biased Global Insurance Mechanism: Asymmetrical Moral Hazard, Reserve Accumulation, and Financial Crises.” _International Organization_ , Vol. 73, Issue. 02, p. 489.
  * Frieden, Jeffry A. 2015. “Chapter 1: Introduction: The Political Economy of Currency Choice,” _Currency Politics: The Political Economy of Exchange Rate Policy_. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. (http://press.princeton.edu/chapters/i10364.pdf). (18 pp.)
  * J. Lawrence Broz and Seth H. Werfel, “Exchange Rates and Industry Demands for Trade Protection,” _International Organization_ , 68 (2014), pp 393-416
  * Stephen C Nelson and Peter J Katzenstein. Uncertainty, risk, and the financial crisis of 2008. _International Organization_ , 68(2):361-392, 2014.
  * Quinn DP, Sattler T, Weymouth S. Do Exchange Rates Influence Voting? Evidence from Elections and Survey Experiments in Democracies.  _International Organization_. 2023;77(4):789-823. doi:10.1017/S002081832300022X
# J. Bradford Jensen, Dennis P. Quinn and Stephen Weymouth, “The Influence of Firm Global Supply Chains and Foreign Currency Undervaluations on US Trade Disputes,” _International Organization_ , 69(2015), pp 913-947 #Cohen, B. J. (2015). _Currency power: understanding monetary rivalry_. Princeton: Princeton University Press. Ch. 1 & 3;  #Benjamin J. Cohen, _Currency Statecraft_(Chicago University Press, 2019)t, ch. 1-3. |  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
5 | The Political Economy of Technological Advancement/ Economic Upgrading (3/20) | 
  * *ACEMOGLU D, ROBINSON JA. Economic Backwardness in Political Perspective.  _American Political Science Review_. 2006;100(1):115-131. doi:10.1017/S0003055406062046; or (for people like a more technical paper, see following) 
    * *Acemoglu, D. (2025). _Institutions, technology and prosperity_ (Working Paper No. 33442). National Bureau of Economic Research. https://www.nber.org/papers/w33442
  * *Kennedy, A. B. (2024). The process of paradigm change: the rise of guided innovation in China.  _Review of International Political Economy_ ,  _31_(4), 1220–1244. https://doi.org/10.1080/09692290.2023.2280974
  * *Ding, J. (2023). The diffusion deficit in scientific and technological power: re-assessing China’s rise.  _Review of International Political Economy_ ,  _31_(1), 173–198. https://doi.org/10.1080/09692290.2023.2173633
  * *Malkin, A., & He, T. (2023). The geoeconomics of global semiconductor value chains: extraterritoriality and the US-China technology rivalry.  _Review of International Political Economy_ ,  _31_(2), 674–699. https://doi.org/10.1080/09692290.2023.2245404
  * *Vaynman J, Volpe TA. Dual Use Deception: How Technology Shapes Cooperation in International Relations.  _International Organization_. 2023;77(3):599-632. doi:10.1017/S0020818323000140
  * Seth Schindler, Ilias Alami, Jessica DiCarlo, Nicholas Jepson, Steve Rolf, Mustafa Kemal Bayırbağ, Louis Cyuzuzo, Meredith DeBoom, Alireza F. Farahani, Imogen T. Liu, Hannah McNicol, Julie T. Miao, Philip Nock, Gilead Teri, Maximiliano Facundo Vila Seoane, Kevin Ward, Tim Zajontz & Yawei Zhao (2023) The Second Cold War: US-China Competition for Centrality in Infrastructure, Digital, Production, and Finance Networks,  _Geopolitics_ , DOI: 10.1080/14650045.2023.2253432
  * Dauvergne, P. (2020). Is artificial intelligence greening global supply chains? Exposing the political economy of environmental costs.  _Review of International Political Economy_ ,  _29_(3), 696–718. https://doi.org/10.1080/09692290.2020.1814381
|  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
6 | Guest Lecture on US-China High-Tech Competition (3/27) |  Guest Lecture: Make Chips Great Again? Silicon Shield 2.0 under Trumpism. By Dr. Chou Kuan-chu (Jack Chou) | Take-Home Mid-Term Exam |  |  48 |  8~12  
7 |  NO CLASS Children’s Day, Qingming Festival (4/3) |  It's holiday, have fun!  | NO CLASS |  |  |   
8 | Take-Home Mid-Term Exam (4/10) | Take-Home Mid-Term Exam | Guest Lecture & Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
9 | Guest Lecture on Immigration (4/17) | 
  * Peng, Ito, and Joseph Wong. 2010. "East Asia." In The Oxford Handbook of the Welfare State edited by Stephan Leibfried Francis G. Castles, Jane Lewis, Herbert Obinger, and Christopher Pierson, 656-670. Oxford, New York: Oxford
  * Peng, Ito, and Yi-Chun Chien. 2018 "Not all in the same family: Diverging approaches to family policy in East Asia" Handbook of Family Policy. Edward Elgar Publishing. . Song, Jiyeoun.
  * 2015. "Labour markets, care regimes and foreign care worker policies in East Asia." Social Policy & Administration 49 (3):376-393.
|  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
10 |  Development and FDI(4/24) | 
  * Nita Rudra (2002), “Globalization and the Decline of the Welfare State in Less-Developed Countries,” _International Organization_ 56:2 (Spring), 411-445. 
  * Li, Quan and Adam Resnick. 2003. “Reversal of Fortunes: Democratic Institutions and Foreign Direct Investment Inflows to Developing Countries.” _International Organization_ 57 (1): 175- 211. 
  * Quan Li and Adam Resnick (2003), “Reversal of Fortunes: Democratic Institutions and Foreign Direct Investment Inflows to Developing Countries,” _International Organization_ 57:1 (Winter), 175-211. 
|  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
11 |  Environment and Resource Curse (5/1) | 
  * Halvor Mehlum, Karl Moene, and Ragnar Torvik (2006), “Cursed by Resources or Institutions?,” _The World Economy_ 29:8 (August), 1117-1131. 
  * Jennifer Clapp and Eric Helleiner (2012), “International Political Economy and the Environment: Back to the Basics?,” _International Affairs_ 88:3 (May), 485-501. 
  * Brooks, Sarah M., and Marcus J. Kurtz. 2016. “Oil and Democracy: Endogenous Natural Resources and the Political ‘Resource Curse.’” I _nternational Organization_ 70 (2): 279–311
  * Solingen, Etel, "Pax Asiatica versus Bella Levantina: The Foundations of War and Peace in East Asia and the Middle East."  _American Political Science Review_ Vol. 101, No. 4 (November 2007).
#Dreher, Axel, Andreas Fuchs, Brad Parks, Austin M. Strange, and Michael J. Tierney. 2018. “Apples and Dragon Fruits: The Determinants of Aid and Other Forms of State Financing from China to Africa.” _International Studies Quarterly_ 62 (1): 182–94. (12 pp.) |  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
12 |  International Governance (5/8) | 
  * Charles Kindleberger, _The world in depression 1929-1939_ (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1973), ch.1, 14
  * Robert O. Keohane, 1984. _After Hegemony: Cooperation and Discord in the World Political Economy_ Princeton: Princeton University Press,), pp.65-109. 
  * Drezner, Dan. 2014. “The System Worked: Global Economic Governance During the Great Recession.” _World Politics_ 66 (1): 123-164.
#Drezner, D. (2020). The Song Remains the Same: International Relations After COVID-19. _International Organization_ , 1-18.  #Allison, Graham T. 2015. “The Thucydides Trap: Are the U.S. and China Headed for War?” The Atlantic. Copy at http://www.tinyurl.com/y6dep3nl #Nye, Joseph.“The Kindleberger Trap.”  _Project Syndicate,_ January 9, 2017 |  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
13 |  Economic Inequality and Crypto-Currency (5/15) | 
  * Rajan, Raghuram. 2010. _Fault lines: how hidden fractures still threaten the world economy_. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press. Intro & Ch.1
  * Kumhof et al.(Kumhof, Michael., Claire Lebarz, Romain Rancière, Alexander W. Richter, and Nathaniel A. Throckmorton). 2012. “Income Inequality and Current Account Imbalances.” (January 2012). _IMF Working Paper_ No. 12/8. Available at SSRN:  _http://ssrn.com/abstract=2613291_
  * Hyoung-kyu Chey. 2022. Cryptocurrencies and the IPE of money: an agenda for research. _Review of International Political Economy_. https://doi.org/10.1080/09692290.2022.2109188
|  Seminar Discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
14 | The Political Economy of International Security & the Security Implications of World Economic Interdependence (5/22) | 
  * Farrell, Henry and Abraham Newman. 2019. ‘Weaponized Interdependence: How Global Economic Networks Shape Global Coercion.’ _International Security_. 44: 1. Summer. Pp. 42-79
  * Stephen E. Gent and Mark J.C. Crescenzi. 2021._Market Power Politics: War, Institutions, and Strategic Delay in World Politics_. Oxford University Press
  * Queralt, D. (2019). War, International Finance, and Fiscal Capacity in the Long Run. _International Organization_ , 73(4), 713-753. doi:10.1017/S0020818319000250
  * Schultz, Kenneth and Barry Weingast. 2003. “The Democratic Advantage: The Institutional Sources of State Power in International Competition” _International Organization_ 57 (winter): 3-42.
|  Seminar discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
15 | Globalization, Crisis and Dynamics (5/29) | 
  * Beth Simmons, Frank Dobbin, and Geoffrey Garrett (2008), “Introduction: The Diffusion of Liberalism,” in Beth Simmons, Frank Dobbin, and Geoffrey Garrett, eds. (2008), _The Global Diffusion of Markets and Democracy_ , 1-63.
  * Rodrik, D. (2011). _The globalization paradox: why global markets, states, and democracy can't coexist_. New York: Oxford University Press. Ch7. 
|  Seminar discussion |  |  3 |  8~12  
16 |  Conclusion & Presentation Week (6/5) |  Presentation Week |  Student Final Presentation |  |  3 |  24  
17 |  Paper writing |  Paper Writing |  Paper Writing |  |  3 |  24  
18 |  Paper Writing |  FINAL PAPER Week |  Final Paper Submission NO CLASS |  NO CLASS |  3 |  12  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.