國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際關係量化研究方法
#####  Course Name: Quantitative Methods in the Studies of International Relations
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：862899001 Course No.862899001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國研碩一、國研碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in International Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：李佳怡 Instructor: LEE CHIA-YI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is intended to help you understand quantitative research and learn quantitative methods in international relations (IR). It is intended for those who have had no prior exposure to statistics. Statistics has played an increasingly large role in social science research, so it is essential to understand how statistics can be used in published research and controversies, even for those who do not rely on statistical methods. You will learn basic statistical concepts and models and how they can be applied in IR studies. Although the emphasis will be on statistical methods, most of the principles we will learn apply to all types of systematic research, regardless of whether it relies on qualitative or quantitative comparisons. 
The statistical software used in this course is R, which can be downloaded for free for Windows, Macintosh, and Linux operating systems from http://www.r-project.org (make sure to download the latest version). Every week, we will have a one-hour R session, in which you will learn how to use R to analyze data or finish some tasks related to the topic in that week. All the homework that includes data analyses should be done in R. Your statistical analyses for the research paper should also be done in R unless you know how to use other software (such as STATA or SPSS) to specify the same model.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 掌握國際安全或國際合作發展實務與理論
  * B. 統整與分析國際資訊
  * C. 培養國際移動能力與國際公民價值
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Our goals are two-fold: We will introduce basic and important statistical concepts based on which statistical methods are developed; we will also emphasize how to use quantitative methods to analyze empirical data and how to substantively interpret and use the results of such analyses. The course assumes no prior knowledge of statistics or mathematics beyond a high school level, although some willingness to learn along the way will be essential.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
週次 Week |  日期 Date |  課程主題 Topic |  指定閱讀 Required Readings |  作業 Homework  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  2/20 |  Course introduction  |  No readings |   
2 |  2/27 |  Research design |  Agresti & Finlay, Chapter 1 Shively, Chapter 2 |  HW1  
3 |  3/6 |  Sampling and measurement |  Agresti & Finlay, Chapter 2 |  HW2  
4 |  3/13 |  Descriptive statistics |  Agresti & Finlay, Chapter 3 |  HW3  
5 |  3/20 |  Probability and distribution |  Agresti & Finlay, Chapter 4 |  HW4  
6 |  3/27 |  Confidence interval |  Agresti & Finlay, Chapters 5 |  HW5  
7 |  4/3 |  No class (public holiday) |  |   
8 |  4/10 |  Significance test |  Agresti & Finlay, Chapters 6 |   
9 |  4/17 |  Midterm exam |  |   
10 |  4/24 |  Linear regression |  Agresti & Finlay, Chapter 9 |  HW6  
11 |  5/1 |  Multiple regression |  Agresti & Finlay, Chapters 10 & 11 |  HW7  
12 |  5/8 |  Time-series and cross-national analysis |  Bell & Jones (2015) |  HW8  
13 |  5/15 |  Guest lecture |  |  (topic confirmed)  
14 |  5/22 |  Logistic regression |  Agresti & Finlay, Chapter 15 |  HW9  
15 |  5/29 |  Count data analysis |  Monogan, Chapter 7 |  HW10  
16 |  6/5 |  Presentations of term papers |  |   
17 |  6/12 |  Flexible teaching week |  |   
18 |  6/19 |  Flexible teaching week |  |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.