國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：東北亞安全關係
#####  Course Name: Security Relations in Northeast Asia
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：862904001 Course No.862904001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國研碩一、國研碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in International Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：楊雯婷 Instructor: YANG WEN-TING 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
What are the factors determining the stability of Northeast Asia? What theoretical approaches can be applied for understanding and analyzing the security relations in Northeast Asia? This course consists of two sections: The first section introduces theories related to security studies in three international relations paradigms, realism, liberalism, and constructivism. The second section discusses how these security theories may apply on the security relations in Northeast Asia through students’ presentation and class discussion. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 掌握國際安全或國際合作發展實務與理論
  * B. 統整與分析國際資訊
  * C. 培養國際移動能力與國際公民價值
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The goal of this course is two-fold: to learn the theories of security studies and to learn how to apply these theories to enhance our understanding of Northeast Asia relations. This course will require students’ enthusiastic participations, including summarizing reading, preparing for presentations on specific security topics in Northeast Asia, and participating in discussion. This course encourages students to present their own research related to security studies, accordingly presentation and final reports may serve as great trainings for master thesis or dissertation. Presentation and participation in discussion help to equip students with capability in critical thinking and oral performance. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 3 週 Week 3 | 參與校內外課程相關學習活動或社會服務Participation in on-campus or off-campus learning activities or community service related to the course  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 參與校內外課程相關學習活動或社會服務Participation in on-campus or off-campus learning activities or community service related to the course  
Course Requirements and EvaluationCriteria
I. Class participation (30 %)
Class attendance is required. The success of this seminar, in terms of how much we can learn from each other, depends crucially on the active participation and input of everyone. Please read required reading carefully and come prepared for discussion. 
II. Presentation(30 %)
  1. For the first section, please _summarize the required readings_ (10-15 minutes) via PPT or a print-out. Others are expected to prepare questions, discussion points related to readings to contribute to discussion. 
  2. For the second section, please conduct empirical research and _present on a security issue in Northeast Asia on the syllabus from week 10 to week17_ (30 minutes). Please submit your PPT to me after presentation. 
    1. If you would like to choose other security issues in Northeast Asia, please inform instructor and our class first and give us some time to get prepare for the topics. It would be even more helpful, if you can suggest some readings for us. 
    2. Presentation is an important training, whether you decide to be a businessperson, a journalist, or a professor. It is important to equip yourself with capability to introduce one topic clearly and precisely. Take this opportunity and have fun with it. 
III. Research Paper (40%)
  1. Each student will write an _8-page_ double-spaced research paper (_10 pages_ for doctoral students) on any subject pertaining to the subject matter of this course, due at the end of the semester. Please choose a security issues or case related to security affairs/policies in Northeast Asia and apply a particular theory to explain the case. 
  2. The paper should include: _a clear research question, brief literature review, theoretical framework, and empirical case study_. 
  3. Please present your research topic, research question, literature review for a research article in _Week 9_ in the class. 
  4. Paper is due in class in _Week 18_ and please email me an electronic copy. Please present your research with the class in the same week. 
  5. Footnote reference should confirm to the Chicago Manual Style, 16th edition (www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/tools_citationguide.html), published by the University of Chicago Press.
Weekly Schedule
Week 1 Introduction
_Section I Theories of Security Studies_
Week 2 Introduction of Theories of Security Studies
_The Routledge Handbook of Security Studies (__RHSS_ _)_ , Ch1. 
Katzenstein,_The Culture of National Security_ , Ch1. 
Week 3 Realism: Balance of Power
Paul, T. V., James J. Wirtz and Michel Fortmann eds., _Balance_ of  _Power_ :  _Theory_  _and_  _Practice_  _in the _21 stCentury__ (Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 2004), Intro, Ch1-3. 
Week 4 Realism: Theories of Alliance
Stephen M. Walt, “Alliance Formation and the Balance of World Power,” _International Security_ , Vol. 9, No. 4 (Spring 1985), pp. 3-41.
Carlo Masala, “Alliances,” in _RHSS_ , pp. 382-91.
Week 5 Realism: Security Dilemma
Robert Jervis, “Cooperation under the security dilemma,” _World Politics_ 30 (1978), pp. 167-214. 
Glenn H. Snyder, “The Security Dilemma in Alliance Politics,” _World Politics_ , Vol. 36, No. 4 (Jul., 1984), pp. 461-495.
Week 6 Realism: Realism and security studies
William C. Wohlforth, “Realism and security studies,” in _RHSS_ , pp. 9-20. 
Week 7 Liberalism
David L. Rousseau and Thomas C. Walker, “Liberalism,” in _RHSS_ , pp. 21-34. 
Katzenstein, _The Culture of National Security_ , Ch3. 
Week 8 Constructivism I: Basic Concepts of Constructivism, Culture of Anarchy
Iver B. Neumann, “National security, culture and identity” in _RHSS_ , pp. 95-104. 
Week 9 Constructivism II: Domestic Collective Identity and Culture Norms in Security Dimension (The Case of Japan)
Katzenstein, _Cultural Norms and National Security_ , Ch3
Week 10 Constructivism III: Security Culture Norms in International Society
Katzenstein, _The Culture of National Security_ , Ch2; Ch12. 
Thierry Balzacq, “Constructivism and securitization studies,” in _RHSS_ , pp. 56-72.
Week 11 Your Own Research I
Please present your research topic, research question, literature review on one article. Let’s discuss what theories may apply in your case. 
_Section II Security Issues in Northeast Asia_
From Week 12~Week 17, we will focus on presentations. Choose a security issues in Northeast Asia and let’s discuss it in the detail. 
Week 12 Why Japan launched War during the Second World War?
Suggested reading: 
_Jack S_.  _Levy and William R_.  _Thompson, Causes of War_ (United Kingdom _: John Wiley_ and  _Sons Ltd_ , 2010). 
加藤陽子『 それでも、日本人は「戦争」を選んだ』 朝日出版社、2009年。中譯版：加藤陽子著， 黃美蓉譯，《日本人為何選擇了戰爭》，台北市:廣場出版;新北市:遠足文化發行，2016年。
Week 13The Korean peninsula
Suggested reading:
Scott Snyder, “The Korean peninsula: on the brink?” in _RHSS_ _,_ pp. 268-278. 
Bruce E. Bechtol Jr, “North Korea’s nuclear weaponization program: background, context, and trends for the future (ch3),” _RHASS_ , pp. 38-49. 
Week 14 U.S.-Japan Alliance or Alliances in Northeast Asia
Suggested reading: 
T. Inoguchi (Editor), G. John Ikenberry eds. _The U.S.-Japan Security Alliance: Regional Multilateralism_ (Palgrave Macmillan, 2011). 
Peter Katzenstein, _The Culture of National Security,_ Ch11
J. J. Suh, “Chapter 4 Bound to Last? The U.S.-Korea Alliance and Analytical Eclecticism.” In Peter Katzenstein, _Rethinking Security in East Asia: Identity, Power, and Efficiency_ , co-edited with J. J. Suh and Allen Carlson, (Stanford University Press, 2004). 
Week 15 Territorial Dispute
Diaoyu vs Senkaku; Kakeshima vs Dokdo; Kuril Islands dispute 
Suggested reading: 
Suk Kyoon Kim, _Maritime Disputes in Northeast Asia: Regional Challenges and Cooperation_ (Brill, 2017), ch. 5 for overview. 
Sheila A. Smith, “Sino-Japanese rivalry and its consequences for Asia (Ch2).” In Sumit Ganguly, Andrew Scobell, Joseph Chinyong Liow eds. _The Routledge Handbook of Asian Security Studies_ (_RHASS_) (2nd Edition) (Routledge, 2017), pp. 21-37. 
Week 16 Maritime Competition
Suggested reading: 
Suk Kyoon Kim, _Maritime Disputes in Northeast Asia: Regional Challenges and Cooperation_ (Brill, 2017). 
Ralf Emmers, _Geopolitics and Maritime Territorial Disputes in East Asia_ (Routledge, 2010). 
Andrew S. Erickson, “China’s maritime ambitions (Ch8),” _RHASS_ , pp. 100-114.
Week 17 Rising China and Thucydides Trap?
Suggested reading:
Graham Allison, _Destined For War: Can America and China escape Thucydides’s Trap_(Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2017). 
Andrew Scobell, “Whither China’s 21st century trajectory?” (Ch1), _RHASS_ , pp. 11-20.
Jeffrey Reeves, “Origins, intentions, and security implications of Xi Jinping’s belt and road initiative (Ch5),” _RHASS_ , pp. 61-73. 
★ Other potential Topics: 
  1. International Law, Norms in Northeast Asia
Suggested reading: 
Peter Katzenstein, The Culture of National Security 
Ch3 (“Status, Norms, and the Proliferation of Conventional Weapons,” p. 79) 
Ch4 (“Norms and Deterrence: The Nuclear and Chemical Weapons Taboos, p. 114); 
Ch10 (“Collective Identity in a Democratic Community: The Case of NATO,” p. 357) 
  1. Korean War and its Impacts on Northeast Asia
Suggested reading: 
Bruce Cumings, _The Korean War: A History_ (Modern Library, 2010). 中譯本： 林添貴譯，《朝鮮戰爭：你以為已經遺忘，其實從不曾了解的一段歷史》，左岸文化，2013年。
Week 18 Your Own Research II
Share your research results with us! 
####  其他： Others: Presentations 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.