國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：教育改革研究
#####  Course Name: Education Reform Studies
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：911949001 Course No.911949001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：學行碩一 Course Department:Master of Education in School Administration/M/1 
  * 授課老師：陳榮政 Instructor: CHEN JUNG-CHENG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：日D56 Session: sun13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
Course Description:
This course is designed to prepare you to become a leader in education. The goal is to
equip you to be aquatinted with the latest and influential issues of education administration worldwide. The course content reflects the tremendous challenges facing educational organizations today and the belief that quality leadership is essential in meeting those challenges.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The course is designed to be reflective and interactive. While there will be direct instruction, participants are expected to be energetic participants in the class discussions. The discussions will be designed to assist class members in forming a vision for educational leadership, developing communication skills to build effective learning communities, and cultivation of academic writing in education administration. The weekly topics are listed. Each class session will end with an evaluation of the effectiveness of our work together during that period. Following each class, the instructor will determine, based on student needs, the specific content of the next session so that the course will remain pertinent course surveys the substance of global and international issues related to educational administration.  
---  
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 9 週 Week 9 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 17 週 Week 17 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
Week I Introduction: the origins of global issues and education administration
Examine the historical foundations and origins of global issues and education administration. Identify and analyze key historical elements and cultural/social factors that have created the current conditions for schooling across cultures.
Week II Globalization, Education, Neo-liberalism, and the State (Part I)
Examine the overarching conceptual frameworks used in the exploration and analysis of international education.
Week III Globalization, Education, Neo-liberalism, and the State (Part II)
The rhetoric of educational marketization around the world.
Week IV Poverty and Finical Aids
The operation of the international organizations
Week V. International Education Organizations (Part I)
Introduction of UNESCO, World Bank, and IEA
Week VI International Education Organization (Part II)
Projects of UNESCO, World Bank, and IEA
Week VII Traditions and Methods in Studying Global Issues
Explore the underlying research principles and issues in international and global issues
Week VIII Midterm Exam
Week IX Globalization Issues in an Educational Context (Part I)
Articulate opinions with support about specific globalization issues within an education context
Week X Globalization Issues in an Educational Context (Part II)
Research specific issues of gender and poverty using a variety of resources and make comparisons based on this topic.
Week XI. Globalization and its Impact on Higher Education (Part I)
Examine various issues of globalization and its impact on higher education.
Week XII. Globalization and its Impact on Higher Education (Part II)
University ranking and diploma inflation
Week XIII. Globalization and its Impact on Higher Education (Part III)
The image of university in 20 years
Week XIV Non-Formal and Adult Education
Analyze ways adults learn in different cultures – their motivations, variety of forms of knowledge, the contexts, and barriers concerning how adults learn.
Week XV. The Trend of Education Reforms (Part I)
The promotion of accountability.
Week XVI. The Trend of Education Reforms (Part II)
Interdisciplinary educational service and administrational change
Week XVII. Group Activity and Final Paper Presentation (Part I)
Week XVIII Group Activity and Final Paper Presentation (Part II) 
Group Activity and Final Paper Presentation (Part I)
Week XVIII Group Activity and Final Paper Presentation (Part II) 
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.