國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：傳播、文化與外交
#####  Course Name: Communication, Culture and Diplomacy
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：922920001 Course No.922920001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外戰略一、外戰略二 Course Department:Master Program in Strategic and International Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：林碧炤 Instructor: LIN BIH-JAW 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：六D5 Session: sat13-15
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed for the Executive Master Program in Strategic and International Studies in the Department of Diplomacy, National Chengchi University for the mid-career professionals to enhance their knowledge and share their experiences with the faculties and students. A learning process and a network expansion have combined together to make this program so special in Taiwan's higher education. This course is an extension of my previous course on "Methodology in Strategic and International Studies". It introduces how communication, culture and diplomacy interact and explain how students can learn from the existing paradigms so as to prepare themselves for further development of their careers.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course covers a wide range of issue areas which are all relevant to the mid-career professionals in Taiwan and other countries. Theory and practice, academic research and professional training, critical thinking and policy evaluation are the main factors which lead the learning process in the program. Case studies will be discussed together with a comparison and an evaluation so as to let students understand how to apply to their future careers.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
18週18 weeks | 無彈性補充教學週No flexible supplemental instruction week  
1. Introduction(Feb 22)
2.Diplomacy(March 1)
3.Communication(March 8)
4.Culture(March 15)
5.Technology(March 22)
6.Political Man, Professionals and Advocates Beyond Borders(March 22)
7.Media, Information and National Wealth(March 29)
8.Break(April 5)
9.Peace and War(April 12)
10.International and Virtual System(April 19)
11.Social Media and International Relations(April 26)
12.Market and International Business(May 3)
13.Theories(May 10)
14.Global and Digital Shift(May 17th)
15.The New World Order(May 24)
16.Break(May 31)
17.Ethics Prevail(June 7)
18.Communication, Culture and Diplomacy in the Virtual World(June 14)
19.The Big Tech and the Multinationals(June 21)
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.