國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：亞太國家發展政策比較
#####  Course Name: Development Policies of the Asia-Pacific Region
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：926032011 Course No.926032011
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太碩一、亞太碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：冷則剛、林超琦、劉曉鵬、藍適齊 Instructor: LENG TSE-KANG/LIN CHAO-CHI/LIU HSIAO PONG/LAN SHI-CHI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二567 Session: tue14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
```
This semester, the course will commence with a collaborative effort between National Chengchi University and Korea University (KU). Lecturers will explore political and economic development in East Asia, focusing on South Korea (henceforth Korea) and comparing it with Japan, Taiwan, and the People's Republic of China (PRC).
```
```
The first part of the course will delve into Korea’s remarkable economic and political development. It will discuss the historical evolution of the Korean economic development model, the progress and limitations of democracy, and the socioeconomic challenges Korea has faced in recent years. By approaching the Korean case from a comparative and theoretical perspective, this part will shed light on potential development paths for the region’s major economies.
```
```
The second part of the course will build upon these insights by examining the unique experiences of individual nations. Three lecturers with specialized expertise on Taiwan, the PRC, and Japan will provide diverse economic and political perspectives, encouraging students to develop conceptual thinking and establish a theoretical foundation for deeper studies in the Asia-Pacific region.
```
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
```
This course aims to understand development in the Asia-Pacific region with an emphasis on the individual experiences of different nations. In particular, five lecturers with specific expertise on Taiwan, China, Japan, Koreas, or Singapore, will provide various economic and political perspectives to students, helping to stimulate conceptual thinking and establish the theoretical foundation for your further study of this region.
```
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
18週18 weeks | 無彈性補充教學週No flexible supplemental instruction week  
PartI.
Korean Economic and Political Development
Joo-Youn Jung, Dept. of Political Science & International Relations, Korea University
Ph.D. Stanford University (jooyoun@korea.ac.kr) 
*Google Classroom link (for course materials and announcements)
https://classroom.google.com/c/NzE2MDIwOTA5MDEw?cjc=g7y6z3w
Ming Lee, Former Dean and Adjunct Professor, College of International Affair, NCCU
Ph.D, University of Virginia
Session 1 (February 18, 2025)_Introduction_  
Lecturers: Professor Ming Lee, Professor Joo-Youn Jung, and IMAS Director Philip Hsiaopong Liu 
Derek McDougall, “Asia Pacific in World Politics”
Session 2 (February 25, 2025)_Questions & Hypotheses _[Prof. Jung, in person]
  1. "Asia Rising," (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iqVbhwcw0pE)
  2. World Bank. 1993. _The East Asian Miracle: Economic Growth and Public Policy._ Oxford: Oxford University Press, pp. 1-26
Session 3 (_February 26_ , 2025) _Theoretical Explanations of East Asia’s Success_ [Prof. Jung, in person]
_6:00–9:00 PM (Dinner will be provided)_
  1. Chung-In Moon and Rashmi Prasad. 1994. “Beyond the Developmental State: Institution, Networks, and Politics.” _Governance: International Journal of Policy and Administration,_ pp. 360-386
Session 4 (March 4, 2025)_Korean Economic Development_ _ & Changes_[Prof. Jung, online]
  1. Stephen Haggard and Chung-In Moon. 1993. “The State, Politics, and Economic Development in Postwar South Korea.” In Hagen Koo (ed.) _State and Society in Contemporary Korea._ Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, Chapter 2 (focus on pp. 51-80)
  2. Chung-In Moon. 1994. “Changing Patterns of Business-Government Relations in South Korea.” In Andrew MacIntyre (ed.) _Business and Government in Industrializing Asia._ Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, Chapter 5
Session 5 (March 11, 2025)_Korea’s_ _Democratization_ _ & New Challenges _[Prof. Jung, online]
Watch: "The Dynamic Development of Korean Democracy" (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jUbuykLagps) 
  1. Jang-Sup Shin and Ha-Joon Chang. 2003. _Restructuring ‘Korea Inc.’: Financial Crisis, Corporate Reform, and Institutional Transition,_ London: Routledge, Chapter 3 (pp. 65-81)
  1. Heon Joo Jung. 2021. “Korean economic policies.” In Moon and Moon eds., _Routledge Handbook of Korean Politics and Public Administration,_ Routledge, Chapter 24
Session 6 (March 18, 2025) In-ClassExam
Session 7 (March 25, 2025)
North Korea: The “Hermit Kingdom” Threatening the World
1. Chapter 13: “North Korea: Friend, Foe, or Foreigner?” Daniel Tudor, op. cit., pp. 146-154.
2. “North Korea,” Korea Annual 2023. Seoul: Yonhap News Agency, 2023. pp. 432-474. 
Session 8 (April 1, 2025)
1. Sokeel Park, “Old Truth, New Tools: Bringing Slow Change to North Korea,” Global Asia, vol. 18, no. 2, 2023.
2. Jungsup Kim, Chung-in Moon, “Coming to Terms with North Korea’s Nuclear Strength,” Global Asia, Vol. 18, no. 1, March 2023.
3. David Von Hippel and Eva Lisowski, “The Human Horror of A Nuclear Conflict in Northeast Asia,” Global Asia, Vol. 18, no. 1, March 2023.
Part II.
The Experiences of the PRC, Japan, and Taiwan
Tse-kang Leng, Research Fellow, Institute of Political Science, Academia Sinica
Ph.D, University of Virginia
The Evolution of the PRC’s Development
Session9 (April 8, 2025)_China (I)_
  1. Ling Chen & Barry Naughton, “A Dynamic China Model: The Co-Evolution of Economics and Politics in China.” _Journal of Contemporary China_ , Vol. 26, No. 103(January 2017), pp. 18-34
  2. Yingyi Qian, “How Reform Worked in China.” Dept. of Economics, UC Berkeley, 2001. 
http://deepblue.lib.umich.edu/bitstream/handle/2027.42/39858/wp473.pdf?sequence=3  
Session10 (April 15, 2025) _China (II)_
  1. Meg Rithmire, Hao Chen, “The Emergence of Mafia-like Business Systems in China”, The China Quarterly, Volume 248 , Issue 1 , December 2021 , pp. 1037 – 1058.
  2. Jennifer Pan, “Controlling China’s Digital Ecosystem: Observations on Chinese Social Media”, _China leadership monitor_ , June, 2022. https://www.prcleader.org/pan
Session11 (April 22, 2025)_China (III)_
Readings:
  1. Gørild M. Heggelund, “China’s Climate and Energy Policy: At a Turning Point? “ _International Environmental Agreements: Politics, Law and Economics_ , Vol. 21, No. 2/3 (2021), pp. 9-23.
  2. Tse-Kang Leng and Rung-yi Chen, “The Red Culture and Political Economy of Museums in Shanghai”, _China Review,_ , Volume 21, Number 3, August 2021, pp. 247-270.
Chao-Chi Lin, Associate Professor, Department of Political Science, NCCU
PhD, Stanford University
Japan’s Development Experiences
Session12 (April 29, 2025)_Japan (I)_
  1. Lipscy, Phillip. 2022. “Japan: the Harbinger State.” _Japanese Journal of Political Science_.1–18. doi:10.1017/S1468109922000329
  2. Rosenbluth, Frances and Michael F. Thies 2010. _Japan Transformed: Political Change and Economic Restructuring_. Princeton NJ: Princeton University Press. Chapter 8 : Japan’s Place in the World, pp:155-173 
  3. McElwain, Kenneth Mori. 2022. “Constitutional Politics in the Post-Abe Era: Institutional and Political Hurdles.” https://www.nippon.com/en/in-depth/d00847/
Session13 (May 6, 2025)_Japan (II)_
  1. Rosenbluth, Frances and Michael F. Thies. 2010. _Japan Transformed: Political Change and Economic Restructuring_. Princeton NJ: Princeton University Press. Chapter 5: Postwar Political Economy & Chapter 7: Japan’s New Political Economy, pp. 72-94, 123-154. 
  2. Ulrike Schaede. 2012. “From developmental state to the ‘New Japan’: the strategic inflection point in Japanese business.” _Asia Pacific Business Review_ 18 (2): 167-185. 
  3. Toyama, Kzuhiko. 2015. “The Curse of ‘Japan Inc.’ and Japan’s Microeconomic competitiveness.” In Yoichi Funabashi and Barack Kushner eds. _Examining Japan’s Lost Decades_. London, New York: Routledge. 56-76.
Session14 (May 13, 2025)_Japan (III)_
  1. Seike, Atsushi. 2015. “Japan’s Demographic Challenges.” In Funabashi, Yoishi and Barack Kushner,_Examining Japan’s Lost Decades_. London New York, Routledge. pp. 1-16. 
  2. Schoppa, Leonard. 2020. "The Policy Response to Declining Fertility Rates in Japan" _Social Science Japan Journal_ 23(1): 3–21 
  3. Kalicki, Konard. 2021. “ Toward Liberal Immigration Control: The Case of Japan” _Asian Survey_ 61(5): 854-882. https://doi.org/10.1525/as.2021.1421466
```
Shi-chi Lan, Associate Professor, History Department, NCCU
```
```
PhD, University of Chicago
```
Taiwan’s Development Experiences
Session15 (May 20, 2025)_Taiwan and Asia as Legacy of Empires_
  1. Tonio Andrade, _How Taiwan Became Chinese: Dutch, Spanish, and Han Colonization in the Seventeenth Century_ (Columbia University Press, 2009)
  2. Robert Eskildsen, _Transforming Empire in Japan and East Asia: The Taiwan Expedition and the Birth of Japanese Imperialism_ (Palgrave Macmillan, 2019)
  3. Evan Dawley, _Becoming Taiwanese: Ethnogenesis in a Colonial City, 1880s-1950s_ (Harvard University Asia Center, 2019)
Session16 (May 27, 2024)_Taiwan and Asia as History of Migration_
  1. Kuo, Huei-Ying, _Networks beyond empires: Chinese business and nationalism in the Hong Kong–Singapore corridor,1914–1941_ (Brill, 2014)
  2. Eiichiro Azuma, _In Search of Our Frontier: Japanese America and Settler Colonialism in the Construction of Japan's Borderless Empire_ (Berkeley, CA: University of California Press, 2019)
  3. Seiji Shirane,_Imperial Gateway: Colonial Taiwan and Japan's Expansion in South China and Southeast Asia, 1895-1945_ (Cornell Univ. Press, 2022)
Session17 (June 3, 2024)_Taiwan and Asia as Historical Memories_
  1. Rana Mitter, _China's Good War: How World War II Is Shaping a New Nationalism_ (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2020)
  2. Dominic Meng-hsuan YANG, _The Great Exodus from China: Trauma, Memory, and Identity in Modern Taiwan_ (Cambridge University Press, 2020)
  3. Viet Thanh Nguyen, _Nothing Ever Dies: Vietnam and the Memory of War_ (Harvard University Press, 2016)
Session18 (June 10, 2025) _Final Quiz_
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.