國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際環境治理
#####  Course Name: Global Environmental Governance
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：926834001 Course No.926834001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太碩一、亞太碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：王慧敏 Instructor: WONG WAI MAN NATALIE 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二56 Session: tue14-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
The aim of this course is to give students a general background of environmental politics by theoretical explanations in order to understand the contemporary environmental challenges in the world. There is no doubt that environmental issues have brought a great influence on contemporary politics and society. Therefore, students will examine the environmental issues with a range of key concepts in the course: what political actors are reacting, how power is distributed in the environmental issues, and how the environmental issues / policies at both national and international levels are affecting our lives.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Upon completion of this course, students are expected to learn:
  1. to cultivate critical perspectives from which to make their own judgments about the possibilities and limits inherent in different kinds of ecological thought, 
  2. to demonstrate a capacity to employ theories in the critical analysis of concrete instances of environmental politics, and 
  3. to examine how the political actors, institutions, and forces are influencing the natural environment.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week |  Topic  
---|---  
Week 1 |  Introduction to the Course What is environmental politics?   
Week 2 |  What is the environmental problem? Philosophical Debates on the environment  
Week 3 |  Driving Forces, Institutions and Actors in Environmental Politics: How do the driving forces achieve a sustainable society?  
Week 4 |  Environmental Challenges: What are some of the main problems human beings have created / are facing nowadays?  
Week 5 |  The making of environmental policy: Where does power lie in environmental policymaking?  
Week 6 |  The politics of science and the shaping of public opinion  
Week 7 |  _Mid-term test_  
Week 8 |  Sustainable development and economic growth: The relationship between the legal order of free trade and environmental protection  
Week 9 |  Effectiveness of international environmental regimes?  
Week 10 |  Selected issues in global environmental politics (I): Environmental Problems in Authoritarian regime  
Week 11 |  Selected issues in global environmental politics (II): Environmental Problems and environmental movement  
Week 12 |  Selected issues in global environmental politics (III): Transboundary environmental problems in ASEAN  
Week 13 |  Group presentation (I)  
Week 14 |  Group presentation (II)  
Week 15 |  Revision   
Week 16  |  Paper Preparation & Consultation  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.