國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：非營利組織管理
#####  Course Name: Seminar on Nonprofit Organization Management
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：926840001 Course No.926840001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太碩一、亞太碩二、亞太碩三 Course Department:International Master's Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/M/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：林宜輝 Instructor: LIN YEI-WHEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12 
##  課程簡介Course Description
Since the latter part of the last centenary, non-profit organizations (NPOs) have played an important role in social problem alleviation and social enrichment. In particular, NPOs are often deployed to plug the gaps in the welfare market that the state and market have failed to fill. For this reason, NPOs are increasingly contributing more to people’s well-being than previously, thus implying that this particular sector will become a key player in helping professionals to pursue their career goals. Having acknowledged the prominence of NPOs as vital welfare providers, this seminar aims to introduce students to important knowledge needed by practitioners and researchers in this field. 
In order to integrate theory and practice, the module has been designed with three features as follows. First, it begins with a theoretical discussion as to why NPOs have gained the upper hand in welfare provision in recent decades and how the new welfare mix might differently impact sectoral stakeholders. The course then focuses on valuable tools and skills in managing today’s NPOs. In particular, the so-called 5 M analytical framework will be presented to consider the five core tasks undertaken by NPOs for their maintenance: mission, money, membership, markets, and measurement. Third, special topics about recent NPO development will be considered, including advocacy, social enterprise, and poverty alleviation. Finally, based on the theoretical part, students will be required to develop their management case study and deal with issues relating to the five core tasks.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
1. Examine the history and scope of the nonprofit sector, both globally and within Taiwan;
2. Understand and describe the basic legal and regulatory environment in which charitable nonprofit organizations operate in Taiwan;
3. Develop an in-depth understanding of contemporary theories of NPOs, including those applicable to the Taiwanese scenario;
4. Explore the changing relationship between the non-profit, private, and public sectors;
5. Learn and apply management knowledge to NPOs, such as fund development, social marketing, volunteer management, and program evaluation.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Course schedule and assignments
Week |  Date |  Topic  
---|---|---  
1 |  2/19 |  Introduction  
Theory  
2 |  2/26  |  Conceptual definition and historical development of NPOs 非營利組織概念定義與發展 （Salamon & Anheier, 1992; Kuan, Duh & Wang, 2010）  
3 |  3/5 |  The government-nonprofit relationship 政府與非營利部門之關係模式 （Jacklin-Jarvis, 2015; Young, 2000）  
Management practice  
4 |  3/12 |  Mission 使命 （Oster, Ch. 2）  
5 |  3/19 |  Membership (I): Board and leadership 董事會與執行長 （Oster, Ch. 6; Worth, Ch. 4）  
6 |  3/26  |  Membership (II): Human resources and volunteer management 專職人員與志工管理工作 （Weisberg & Dent, 2016; Lee, 2019）  
7 |  4/2 |   
8 |  4/9 |  Money: Fundraising and financial accountability 募款 （Worth, Ch. 11; Bekkers & Wiepking, 2011）  
9 |  4/16 |  Market: Marketing and communication （Worth, Ch. 11; Bennett, 2008） 行銷與溝通 * Take home essay submission  
10 |  4/23 |  Measurement: Service accountability 責信與績效管理 （Worth, Ch. 6; Williams & Taylor, 2013）  
Special Topics  
11 |  4/30 |  Advocacy and lobbying 倡議與遊說 （Arvidson et al., 2018; Steven & Pekkanen, 2012）  
12 |  5/7 |  Field visit to local nonprofit organization (A)  
13 |  5/14 |  Social entrepreneurship: East and West 社會企業家（東西方比較） （Kerlin, 2006; Bidet. & Defourny, 2019; 徐沛然, 2018）  
14 |  5/21 |  The future of voluntary organization 非營利組織的發展前景 （Ferris, 2016; von Schnurbein, 2018; 阿南德‧葛德哈拉德斯, 2020）  
15 |  5/28 |  Field visit to local nonprofit organization (B)  
16 |  6/4 |  Presentation  
17 |  6/11 |  Drafting final report  
18 |  6/18 |  Final report submission  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.