國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：東南亞的公民與非公民社會：抵抗、默許與拉攏
#####  Course Name: Civil and "Uncivil" Societies in Southeast Asia: Resistance, Acquiesce nce and Cooptation
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：926816001 Course No.926816001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太碩一、亞太碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：DeasyRumondang Prisc Instructor: Deasy Rumondang Priscilla 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
[This course has 1-2 required short article reading per week. The other readings are “additional” readings, these “additional” readings are thus not mandatory, yet if students write their essays using these, they will get additional points.]
This course explores the different kinds of civil society forms in Southeast Asia, focusing on the discrepancy between those that work toward democratic progress and the others, the so-called “uncivil” societies that promote illiberalism while still benefiting from the democratic tenet of freedom of speech. Many political thinkers have used the concept of “civil society”, among them were Hobbes, Locke, Montesquieu, De Tocqueville, Hegel, Marx, and Gramsci. Yet only since Cohen's and Arato's “Civil Society and Political Theory” (1992) has the academic debate focused on the civil society's role in the promotion of democratic regimes (Dryzek 2016). As a working concept here, we define civil society as a political space where voluntary associations deliberately seek to shape the rules that govern one or the other aspect of social life. “Rules” refer to specific policies, more general norms and deeper social structures. Therefore, civil society actions may target formal directives (such as legislation), informal constructs (such as gender roles) and/or social order. Civil society serves as buffer and intermediary between citizen and the state and accepts the latter as the domain for political contestation.
This course discusses the role of civil society in democracy and democratization, especially the politics of democratic transitions, its deepening and decline, in Southeast Asia. The relationship between civil society and democracy has indeed been a subject of major debate, particularly on the question of whether the existence of civil society is a sufficient condition for democracy. It has also been criticized for its middle-class bias and blindness to gender inequalities.
On Week 11, on the topic of Democratic Decline, we will have Dr. Choong Pui Yee, Associate Professor at University of Malaya, Malaysia, as guest lecturer on the grassroot democratization movements such as “Bersih”. Also, on Week 16, tentatively, we will visit the Taiwan Foundation for Democracy (TFD), a prominent think-tank, to learn about their activities in promoting democracy in Taiwan and in the region.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The first part of the course, in addition to the elaboration of key concepts, points at the global proliferation of formal and constitutional/electoral democracy, while examining the existence of semi-authoritarian (hybrid) governance and democratic rollbacks in Southeast Asia. The second part of the course focuses on how civil society activism offers possibilities to reduce the major democratic deficits and support the efforts towards more substantive democratization, examining the role of key actors, agendas and democratic transformation strategies. Based on interdisciplinary literatures, the course is designed to both give an overview and theoretical basis for the topic as well as drawing from cases studies pertaining to the role of civil society in democratization, especially in the developing world. At the end of the course, students will be able to distinguish the analytical and normative references in the concept of civil society, identity and evaluate the relations between civil society and democratization, recognize the role of civil society in various governance styles (i.e. democratic, authoritarian and hybrid forms) in Southeast Asia.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 18 週 Week 18 | 參與校內外課程相關學習活動或社會服務Participation in on-campus or off-campus learning activities or community service related to the course  
第 15 週 Week 15 | 參與校內外課程相關學習活動或社會服務Participation in on-campus or off-campus learning activities or community service related to the course  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 |  Introduction 2/20 |  Syllabus and Course Regulations |  NO HOMEWORK |  3 |  0  
2 |  National Holiday – 228 Memorial Day 2/27 |  NO CLASS |  NO CLASS |  NO CLASS |  NO CLASS  
3 |  Democracy and Civil Society 3/6 |  De Tocqueville, Alexis, 2015. _Democracy in America-Vol. I. and II_. Read Books Ltd. (Vol II, Part 1) – [very short chapters from a classic book] Foley, Michael W. and Bob Edwards, 1998. "Beyond Tocqueville: civil society and social capital in comparative perspective: editors' introduction." _American Behavioral Scientist,_ 5-20. |  ESSAYS (for those who choose this topic) |  3 |  3  
4 |  Critiques of Tocquevillian Civil Society 3/13 |  Diamond, Larry, 1994. "Rethinking civil society: Toward democratic consolidation." _Journal of democracy_ 5.3: 4-17. Hedman, Eva-Lotta E, 2001, "Contesting state and civil society: Southeast Asian trajectories." _Modern Asian Studies_ 35.4: 921-951. Additional: Kim, Sungmoon. "On Korean dual civil society: Thinking through Tocqueville and Confucius."  _Contemporary Political Theory_ 9.4 (2010): 434-457. |  SHORT ESSAYS (for those who choose this topic) |  3 |  3  
5 |  Social Capital and Civil Society 3/20 |  Fukuyama, Francis, 2001. "Social capital, civil society and development." _Third world quarterly_ 22.1: 7-20. Putnam, Robert D, 1992, _Making democracy work: Civic traditions in modern Italy_. Princeton university press. (Ch.6 – Social capital and institutional success) Additional: Edwards, Bob, and Michael W. Foley, 1998 "Civil society and social capital beyond Putnam." _American behavioral scientist_ 42.1: 124-139. |  SHORT ESSAYS (for those who choose this topic) |  3 |  3  
6 |  Social Movement and the State 3/27 |  Bermeo, Nancy G, 2003, _Ordinary people in extraordinary times: The citizenry and the breakdown of democracy_. Princeton University Press (Ch.1) Tarrow, Sidney, 2012, _Strangers at the gates: movements and states in contentious politics_. Cambridge University Press (Ch.1) Additional: Linz, Juan J., Juan J. Linz, and Alfred Stepan, 1996, _Problems of democratic transition and consolidation: Southern Europe, South America, and post-communist Europe_. JHU Press (Ch. 1) |  SHORT ESSAYS (for those who choose this topic) |  3 |  3  
7 |  National Holiday – Children’s Day and Tomb Sweeping Festival 4/3 |  NO CLASS |  NO CLASS |  NO CLASS |  NO CLASS  
8 |  Fake news and the limitations to freedom of speech: lessons from the Philippines and Malaysia 4/10 |  Coronel, Sheila S. "Press freedom in the Philippines."  _Press freedom in contemporary Asia_. Routledge, 2019. 214-229. Fernandez, Joseph M. "Malaysia's Anti-Fake News Act: A cog in an arsenal of anti-free speech laws and a bold promise of reforms."  _Pacific Journalism Review_ 25.1/2 (2019): 173-192. Additional: Gloria, Glenda. "Holding the line: Rappler, Facebook, Duterte and the battle for truth and public trust."  _Pacific Journalism Review_ 28.1/2 (2022): 47-53. Herr, Orna. "New tactics to close down speech: The news editor at Rappler speaks to Index about legal threats against the media outlet’s CEO, Maria Ressa, plus a report on Index’s recent work."  _Index on Censorship_ 49.3 (2020): 97-100. Grace A Go, Miriam. "“We’re not scared of these things”: Rappler news editor on how the newsroom continues despite the increasing threats, alongside words from their CEO Maria Ressa."  _Index on Censorship_ 47.2 (2018): 48-51. Neo, R. (2021). The failed construction of fake news as a security threat in Malaysia.  _Contemporary Politics_ ,  _27_(3), 316-335. |  SHORT ESSAYS (for those who choose this topic) |  3 |  3  
9 |  Democratic transition and student movements: lessons from Thailand and Indonesia  4/17 |  Sastramidjaja, Yatun. "Chapter One. Student Movements and Indonesia’s Democratic Transition".  _Activists in Transition: Progressive Politics in Democratic Indonesia_ , edited by Thushara Dibley and Michele Ford, Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 2019, pp. 23-40. https://doi.org/10.1515/9781501742491-004 Darling, Frank C. “Student Protest and Political Change in Thailand.”  _Pacific Affairs_ , vol. 47, no. 1, 1974, pp. 5–19.  _JSTOR_ , https://doi.org/10.2307/2755892.  Additional: Franken, Lara Aina. "Perception of Hierarchy Among Student Activists in the Thai Youth Movement 2020-2022."  _Asia in Focus_ 10. |  SHORT ESSAYS (for those who choose this topic) |  3 |  3  
10 |  Transnational democratization and digital movement: the Milk tea alliance 4/24 |  Huang, Roger Lee, and Chavalin Svetanant. "Challenging digital authoritarianism: Milk Tea Alliance and transnational solidarity."  _Activism and authoritarian governance in Asia_. Routledge, 2022. 130-142. Khor, Yu Leng. "Mapping the Transnationalisation of Social Movements Through Online Media: The Case of the Milk Tea Alliance."  _The Palgrave Handbook of Political Norms in Southeast Asia_. Singapore: Springer Nature Singapore, 2024. 121-136. |  SHORT ESSAYS (for those who choose this topic) |  3 |  3  
11 |  Governance reform, anti-corruption: the Malaysian experience 5/1 (Guest lecture: Dr. Choong Pui Yee, University of Malaya, Malaysia) |  Choong, Pui Yee, 2016 , "Grassroots Democratic Movements' Dependency on New Media in Contemporary Malaysia: Prospects and Limitations." _State, Society and Information Technology in Asia_. Routledge, 93-108. Case, William, 2009, "Low-quality democracy and varied authoritarianism: elites and regimes in Southeast Asia today." _The Pacific Review_ 22.3: 255-269. Additional: Govindasamy, Anantha Raman. "Social movements in contemporary Malaysia: The cases of BERSIH, HINDRAF and Perkasa."  _Routledge Handbook of Contemporary Malaysia_. Routledge, 2014. 116-126. |  SHORT ESSAYS (for those who choose this topic) |  3 |  3  
12 |  The Politics of citizenship, and the plight of the minorities: the Myanmar experience  5/8 |  Berenschot, Ward, Henk Schulte Nordholt, and Laurens Bakker. "Introduction: citizenship and democratization in postcolonial Southeast Asia." _Citizenship and democratization in Southeast Asia_. Brill, 2017. 1-28 Jagger, Stan. "Developing civil society in the non-state sphere: Welfare and rights-based organisations associated with ethnic armed groups in Myanmar."  _Small wars & insurgencies_ 29.2 (2018): 316-343. Additional: Cheesman, Nick. "How in Myanmar “national races” came to surpass citizenship and exclude Rohingya."  _Journal of Contemporary Asia_ 47.3 (2017): 461-483. Aziz, Abdul. "Rohingya diaspora online: Mapping the spaces of visibility, resistance and transnational identity on social media."  _New Media & Society_ 26.9 (2024): 5219-5239. |  SHORT ESSAYS (for those who choose this topic) |  3 |  3  
13 |  Labor movements and contentious politics: stories from Indonesia, the Philippines, and Vietnam 5/15 |  Sutan, Arissy Jorgi, et al. "Using social media as tools of social movement and social protest in omnibus law of job creation bill policy-making process in Indonesia."  _International Conference on Advances in Digital Science_. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2021. Hutchison, Jane. "Labour politics in Southeast Asia: The Philippines in comparative perspective."  _Routledge handbook of Southeast Asian politics_. Routledge, 2012. 40-52. Additional: Ngoc Tran, Angie. "The third sleeve: Emerging labor newspapers and the response of the labor unions and the state to workers' resistance in Vietnam."  _Labor Studies Journal_ 32.3 (2007): 257-279. Pangsapa, Piya, 2015, "When battlefields become marketplaces: Migrant workers and the role of civil society and NGO activism in Thailand." _International Migration_ 53.3: 124-149. |  SHORT ESSAYS (for those who choose this topic) |  3 |  3  
14 |  Religious “uncivil” society? The case of Indonesia and Myanmar 5/22 |  Facal, Gabriel, 2020, "Islamic Defenders Front Militia (Front Pembela Islam) and its impact on growing religious intolerance in Indonesia." _TRaNS: Trans-Regional and-National Studies of Southeast Asia_ 8.1: 7-20. Van Klinken, Gerry, and Su Mon Thazin Aung, 2017, "The contentious politics of anti-Muslim scapegoating in Myanmar." _Journal of Contemporary Asia_ 47.3 (2017): 353-375 Additional: Candland, Christopher, 2001, "Faith as social capital: Religion and community development in Southern Asia." _Social Capital as a Policy Resource_. Springer, Boston, MA, 2001. 129-148. |  SHORT ESSAYS (for those who choose this topic) |  3 |  3  
15 |  Study Visit to industrial policy Think Tank: Market Intelligence and Consulting Institute (MIC) 5/29 |  Market Intelligence & Consulting Institute (MIC, previously known as the Market Intelligence Center) is a division of the Institute for Information Industry (III), a leader in Taiwan's ICT industry research and consultancy. |  NO CLASS |  NO CLASS |  NO CLASS  
16 |  The Mekong Region case and environmental challenges: lessons from Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and Vietnam 6/5 |  Green, W. Nathan, and Ian G. Baird. "The contentious politics of hydropower dam impact assessments in the Mekong River basin."  _Political geography_ 83 (2020): 102272. Young, Sokphea, and Sophal Ear. "Transnational political economic structures: explaining transnational environmental movements against dams in the lower Mekong region."  _Third World Quarterly_ 42.12 (2021): 2993-3011. Additional: Nguyen-Van-Quoc, Thai, Ethemcan Turhan, and Ronald Holzhacker. "Activism and non-activism: The politics of claiming environmental justice in Vietnam."  _Environment and Planning E: Nature and Space_ 6.2 (2023): 976-1006. Kirchherr, Julian, Katrina J. Charles, and Matthew J. Walton. "The interplay of activists and dam developers: The case of Myanmar’s mega-dams."  _International Journal of Water Resources Development_ 33.1 (2017): 111-131. |  SHORT ESSAYS (for those who choose this topic) |  3 |  3  
17 |  Gender issues and the triumph of social movement: lessons from Thailand and Indonesia 6/12 |  Moreau, Julie, 2017, "Political Science and the Study of LGBT Social Movements in the Global South." _LGBTQ Politics: A Critical Reader_ 3: 439. Yulius, H., and S. G. Davies. "The unfulfilled promise of democracy: lesbian and gay activism in Indonesia."  _Activists in transition: progressive politics in democratic Indonesia_ (2019): 153-170.  Additional: Falk, Monica Lindberg. "Feminism, Buddhism and transnational women’s movements in Thailand."  _Women's Movements in Asia_. Routledge, 2010. 120-133. |  SHORT ESSAYS (for those who choose this topic) |  3 |  3  
18 |  Study Visit to Taiwan Foundation for Democracy (TFD) 6/19 |  Students attend a presentation by a research fellow at TFD and participate in the discussion. |  NO HOMEWORK |  3 |  0  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.