國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際人權倡議
#####  Course Name: Transnational Human Rights Advocacy
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：926881001 Course No.926881001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太碩一、亞太碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：黃兆年 Instructor: HUANG JAW-NIAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12 
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course aims to provide students with a fundamental understanding of the theories and empirical studies of human rights advocacy in the field of international relations. We will begin with a brief introduction to the basic ideas of human rights (HR). From the perspective of international relations theories, we will then discuss in depth various models in which state actors and non-state actors promote respect for human rights in the international society. Finally, we will travel back to the local context to see the issues and case studies regarding human rights advocacy in Taiwan.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Students will understand the theories and realities of transnational human rights advocacy, be able to apply the knowledge learned in the course to relevant issues and cases in the real world, and have the potential to contribute to democratic and global governance in their professional career.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week |  Date |  Theme/Activity |  Learning Hours  
---|---|---|---  
Class |  Preparation  
1 |  2/20 |  Introduction |  3 |  0  
2 |  2/27 |  The Concept of Human Rights
  * Donnelly, Jack. 2007. “The Relative Universality of Human Rights.” _Human Rights Quarterly_ 29 (2): 281–306.
  * Goodhart, Michael. 2008. “Neither Relative nor Universal: A Response to Donnelly.” _Human Rights Quarterly_ 30 (1): 183–93.
_Suggested_ :
  * United Nations. 1948. “Universal Declaration of Human Rights.” http://www.un.org/en/universal-declaration-human-rights/.
  * United Nations. 1966. “International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.” http://www.ohchr.org/EN/ProfessionalInterest/Pages/CCPR.aspx.
  * United Nations. 1966. “International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.” http://www.ohchr.org/EN/ProfessionalInterest/Pages/CESCR.aspx.
|  3 |  5  
International Institutions and HR Promotion  
3 |  3/6 |  Do HR Treaties Work?
  * Hathaway, Oona A. 2002. “Do Human Rights Treaties Make a Difference?” _The Yale Law Journal_ 111 (8): 1935–2042.
  * Goodman, R., and D. Jinks. 2004. “How to Influence States: Socialization and International Human Rights Law.” _Duke Law Journal_ 54 (3): 621–703.
  * Powell, Emilia Justyna, and Jeffrey K. Staton. 2009. “Domestic Judicial Institutions and Human Rights Treaty Violation.” _International Studies Quarterly_ 53 (1): 149–74.
  * Simmons, Beth A. 2009. _Mobilizing for Human Rights: International Law in Domestic Politics_. Cambridge University Press.
|  3 |  5  
Economic Incentives and HR Promotion  
4 |  3/13 |  Is Respect for HR Buyable? – The Effects of Trade
  * Hafner-Burton, Emilie M. 2005. “Trading Human Rights: How Preferential Trade Agreements Influence Government Repression.” _International Organization_ 59 (3).
  * Gray, Mark M., Miki Caul Kittilson, and Wayne Sandholtz. 2006. “Women and Globalization: A Study of 180 Countries, 1975–2000.” _International Organization_ 60 (2).
  * Prakash, Aseem, and Matthew Potoski. 2006. “Racing to the Bottom? Trade, Environmental Governance, and ISO 14001.” _American Journal of Political Science_ 50 (2): 350–364.
|  3 |  5  
5 |  3/20 |  Movie Discussion |  3 | 1  
6 |  3/27 |  Is Respect for HR Buyable? – The Effects of FDIs
  * Richards, D. L., R. D. Gelleny, and D. H. Sacko. 2001. “Money with a Mean Streak? Foreign Economic Penetration and Government Respect for Human Rights in Developing Countries.” _International Studies Quarterly_ 45 (2): 219–239.
  * Cole, Matthew A., Robert J. R. Elliott, and Per G. Fredriksson. 2006. “Endogenous Pollution Havens: Does FDI Influence Environmental Regulations?” _Scandinavian Journal of Economics_ 108 (1): 157–78.
  * Mosley, L., and S. Uno. 2007. “Racing to the Bottom or Climbing to the Top? Economic Globalization and Collective Labor Rights.” _Comparative Political Studies_ , no. 40(July).
|  3 | 5  
7 | 4/3 |  Holiday (No Class) |  |   
8 |  4/10 |  Is Respect for Human Rights Rewarded?
  * Blanton, Shannon Lindsey. 2000. “Promoting Human Rights and Democracy in the Developing World: U.S. Rhetoric versus U.S. Arms Exports.” _American Journal of Political Science_ 44 (1): 123–31.
  * Neumayer, Eric. 2003. “Is Respect for Human Rights Rewarded? An Analysis of Total Bilateral and Multilateral Aid Flows.” _Human Rights Quarterly_ 25 (2): 510–27.
  * Blanton, Shannon Lindsey, and Robert G. Blanton. 2007. “What Attracts Foreign Investors? An Examination of Human Rights and Foreign Direct Investment.” _Journal of Politics_ 69 (1): 143–155.
|  3 |  5  
9 |  4/17 |  Midterm Exam Week – Essay Paper |  0 |  5  
Transnational Advocacy Networks (TANs), Reputational Sanctions, and HR Promotion  
10 | 4/24 |  How Do TANs Work? – The Boomerang Model
  * Keck, Margaret E., and Kathryn Sikkink. 1998. _Activists beyond Borders: Advocacy Networks in International Politics_. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
  * Bob, Clifford. 2005. _The Marketing of Rebellion: Insurgents, Media, and International Activism_. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
_Suggested:_
  * Ron, J., H. Ramos, and K. Rodgers. 2005. “Transnational Information Politics: NGO Human Rights Reporting, 1986–2000.” _International Studies Quarterly_ 49 (3): 557–588. [naming]
| 3 | 5  
11 |  5/1 |  How Do TANs Work? – The Spiral Model
  * Risse, Thomas, Stephen C. Ropp, and Kathryn Sikkink. 1999. _The Power of Human Rights: International Norms and Domestic Change_. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
  * Cohen, Stanley. 2001. _States of Denial: Knowing about Atrocities and Suffering_. 1sted. Polity.
_Suggested:_
  * Hafner-Burton, E. M. 2008. “Sticks and Stones: Naming and Shaming the Human Rights Enforcement Problem.” _International Organization_ 62 (4): 689–716. [shaming]
  * Murdie, Amanda M., and David R. Davis. 2012. “Shaming and Blaming: Using Events Data to Assess the Impact of Human Rights INGOs1.” _International Studies Quarterly_ 56 (1): 1–16. [shaming]
|  3 |  5  
12 |  5/8 |  Movie Discussion |  3 | 1  
13 |  5/15 |  How Do TANs Work? – The Life Cycle of a Norm
  * Finnemore, Martha, and Kathryn Sikkink. 1998. “International Norm Dynamics and Political Change.” _International Organization_ 25 (4): 887–917.
  * Sikkink, Kathryn. 2011. _The Justice Cascade: How Human Rights Prosecutions Are Changing World Politics_. W. W. Norton & Company. [A case of transitional justice norms]
|  3 | 5  
14 |  5/22 |  How Do TANs Work? – The Role of Local Actors
  * Merry, Sally Engle. 2006. “Transnational Human Rights and Local Activism: Mapping the Middle.” _American Anthropologist_ 108 (1): 38–51.
  * Mihr, Anja, and Hans Peter Schmitz. 2007. “Human Rights Education (HRE) and Transnational Activism.” _Human Rights Quarterly_ 29 (4): 973–93.
  * Kurasawa, Fuyuki. 2007. _The Work of Global Justice: Human Rights as Practices_. Cambridge University Press.
_Suggested:_
  * Weldon, S. Laurel. 2006. “Inclusion, Solidarity, and Social Movements: The Global Movement against Gender Violence.” _Perspectives on Politics_ 4 (1): 55–74. [framing]
  * Mertus, Julie. 2007. “The Rejection of Human Rights Framings: The Case of LGBT Advocacy in the US.” _Human Rights Quarterly_ 29 (4): 1036–64. [framing]
| 3 | 5  
15 | 5/29 |  Movie Discussion | 3 | 1  
HR Advocacy in Taiwan  
16 |  6/5 |  HR Advocacy in Taiwan
  * Chen, Yu-Jie. 2019. “Isolated but Not Oblivious: Taiwan’s Acceptance of the Two Major Human Rights Covenants.” In _Taiwan and International Human Rights: A Story of Transformation_ , edited by Jerome A. Cohen, William P. Alford, and Chang-fa Lo, 207–25. Economics, Law, and Institutions in Asia Pacific. Singapore: Springer.
  * Chen, Chun-Hung, and Hung-Ling Yeh. 2019. “The Battlefield of Transitional Justice in Taiwan: A Relational View.” In _Taiwan and International Human Rights: A Story of Transformation_ , edited by Jerome A. Cohen, William P. Alford, and Chang-fa Lo, 67–80. Economics, Law, and Institutions in Asia Pacific. Singapore: Springer.
  * Kuan, Hsiaowei. 2019. “LGBT Rights in Taiwan—The Interaction Between Movements and the Law.” In _Taiwan and International Human Rights: A Story of Transformation_ , edited by Jerome A. Cohen, William P. Alford, and Chang-fa Lo, 593–607. Economics, Law, and Institutions in Asia Pacific. Singapore: Springer.
|  3 |  5  
17 |  6/12 | Movie Reflection Paper Writing | 0 | 5  
18 |  6/19 |  Final Exam Week – Essay Paper |  0 |  5  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.