國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：行銷管理
#####  Course Name: Marketing Management for International Managers
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：933002001 Course No.933002001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國營碩一、國營碩二 Course Department:International Master of Business Administration/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：顧筱筠 Instructor: Ku Sheau-Yun 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：日234 Session: sun09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
Marketing is a multifaceted and dynamic business function crucial for customer acquisition and retention, often conceptualized as the art and science of profitably meeting needs. At its core, marketing is about delivering superior value to customers. Achieving this requires strategic thinking, analytical abilities, creativity, and a strong understanding of marketing concepts and frameworks.
This curriculum is designed to provide you with a deep understanding of foundational frameworks such as the Three C’s (Customers, Company, and Competitors) and the Four P’s (Product, Pricing, Promotion, and Place). By the end of this course, you will be equipped to structure your thinking, develop comprehensive marketing strategies, and translate these  
strategies into actionable tactics.  
You will enhance your analytical and decision-making skills, assess customer behavior, devise performance metrics, optimize processes, nurture customer relationships, and ensure strategic alignment. Additionally, you will learn to construct and analyze realistic business scenarios,answering key marketing questions such as:  
● Which customers should be served?  
● What is the optimal product bundle for these customers?  
● How can we effectively connect the two?
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 商業管理能力 Students will acquire and apply expertise in business administration.
  * B. 全球具有亞洲特色的企業倫理,社會責任及永續關懷 Students will contribute to business ethics, socail responsibility, and sustainable development globally with Asia Characteristics
  * C. 具創新能力、創業家精神及面對變革的能力 Students can demonstrate innovative ability, entrepreneurship and capabilities to manage change.
  * D. 具全球視野與亞洲觀點之執行能力 Students will be able to analyze problems from global view with an Asia perspective and develop high execution capability.
  * E. 全球領導力 Students will develop global leadership capabilities.
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of this course, you will be able to:  
Understand Core Marketing Concepts: Learn the fundamental frameworks of the Three C’s and Four P’s.  
Analyze Market Data and Consumer Behavior: Employ segmentation, targeting, and positioning (STP) tools to conduct thorough market analysis and inform strategic decisions.  
Develop Strategic Marketing Plans: Create competitive strategies, including product development, branding, and pricing.  
Implement Tactical Marketing Actions: Apply integrated marketing communications (IMC) and manage distribution and supply chains effectively.  
Explore Behavioral Marketing Insights: Examine how biases and rapid technological changes affect information dissemination and decision-making. Learn how contemporary marketers can leverage these insights to enhance marketing strategies effectively.  
Collaborate and Present Effectively: Work in teams to analyze cases, develop consulting projects, and deliver impactful presentations.
Career Benefits  
This course benefits students pursuing careers in Marketing, Technology, Consulting, Investment Analysis, Venture Capital/Private Equity, and Entrepreneurship.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
# Please refer to the file.
####  其他： Others:
### Readings and case studies will be posted on the course website. There is no specific textbook for the course, but supplementary materials may be delivered on a class-to-class basis.
We will use a mix of lectures, interactive discussions and debates, guest speakers, and the case method to facilitate learning. While case studies have been carefully selected throughout the course, they may not always perfectly align with recently taught materials due to the complexity and evolving nature of real-world situations. 
However, I encourage you to think beyond the immediate topic and use this opportunity to develop critical thinking and practical skills.We will incorporate the case method because it challenges your analytical skills and cultivates  
your communication abilities. Active participation is essential to maximize these benefits, so I may "cold call" students. This approach is intended to foster active engagement and help you develop the necessary skills for marketing management.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.