國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：資訊管理 
#####  Course Name: Management Information Systems
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：933003001 Course No.933003001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國營碩一、國營碩二 Course Department:International Master of Business Administration/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：杜雨儒、尚孝純 Instructor: TU YU-JU/SHANG SHIAW-CHUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三FGH Session: wed19-22
##  課程簡介Course Description
The primary goal of this course is to prepare the business professional to think strategically, creatively, and critically about the application of information systems in business settings. While fundamental technologies are typically available to all corporations, excellence in the efficiency and effectiveness of decision making, deployment, and utilization of the systems can result in significant economic benefits. The course will focus on solving business problems and creating new opportunities with emerging information technologies. It will provide concepts and frameworks for understanding the potential impact of IT on business strategy and performance with a particular focus on the digital commerce landscape.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 商業管理能力 Students will acquire and apply expertise in business administration.
  * B. 全球具有亞洲特色的企業倫理,社會責任及永續關懷 Students will contribute to business ethics, socail responsibility, and sustainable development globally with Asia Characteristics
  * C. 具創新能力、創業家精神及面對變革的能力 Students can demonstrate innovative ability, entrepreneurship and capabilities to manage change.
  * D. 具全球視野與亞洲觀點之執行能力 Students will be able to analyze problems from global view with an Asia perspective and develop high execution capability.
  * E. 全球領導力 Students will develop global leadership capabilities.
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The major objectives of this course are to help students:  
- develop a clear understanding of the nature of the “digital economy” and identify a set of challenges facing firms of different kinds.  
- study the various types of electronic commerce applications in use today and likely to emerge in the coming years.  
- know the IT trends and leverage the value of emerging technologies, such as: AI, IOT, XR and data analytics  
- Analyze the integration of technology into business strategy and decision-making  
- set the right direction of IS implementation – selection, design, implementation and management.  
Topics include three parts:  
Business Values and Information Systems  
Key System Applications for the Digital Age  
Business Innovations with Technologies
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
# | Date | Content  
---|---|---  
1 | 2/19 | Digital Transformation for Business Today - from Internal MIS to Innovative MIS  
2 | 2/26 | Business Innovations with Technologies  
3 | 3/05 | Artificial Intelligence  
4 | 3/12 | Digital Markets and Digital Goods  
5 | 3/19 | Blockchain technology  
6 | 3/26 | IT strategy and project management   
7 | 4/02 | Enterprise Applications - Adopt or Adapt Intercollegiate Activities (no  
class)  
8 | 4/09 | Social Media Strategy  
9 | 4/16 | Data Analytics for Business Transformation  
10 | 4/30 | Artificial Intelligence in Practice  
11 | 5/07 | Business Innovation Models – Crowdsourcing Innovation Platforms,  
Internet of Things for Industries  
12 | 5/14 | Smart Gamification  
13 | 5/21 | Immersive Technologies for Experience Innovation  
14 | 5/28 | Fintech, Healthtech, Retailtech, ESG tech innovation  
15 | 6/04 | Final project - Smart Digital Transformation  
Individual exercise General understanding of ERP ODOO and SAP  
Case Study  
Assigned Group  
Requirements for Group Case Presentation and individual case report  
Students will work in groups to present one case study and lead the case discussion in the class.
  *  Assigned group needs to prepare slides to summarize the case story and lead case discussion according to learning objectives and assignment questions.
  *  Assigned group needs to upload the case story slides and summarized answers (answers from their analysis and feedbacks from class) to group case assignment website one day before the case discussion (Tuesday 23:59 hrs.). The scoring of the group assignment is based on the achievement of learning objectives and class participation.
Individual
  *  Students will prepare two-page case summary and upload it to case assignment website two days before the case discussion (Monday 23:59 hrs.). The scoring is based on the quality of the case introduction and analysis.
Project I: Building eCommerce business  
Create an E-Commerce website for a product line of your choice  
Pick a product type or line (ie. books, electronics, CD’s, DVD’s, bikes, shoes, clothes, etc.) that you would like to sell online. Remember to keep in mind which products are  
most likely to be sold in an online retail environment. Research the range of items you wish to sell and the possible sale prices you can foresee for these products. Find  
and store pictures, prices and other information about your products for use in your website. Decide on how you would like to setup your website: What do you like in  
a website, what will you include in yours? Research what you like or dislike in websites and think how’d you like to design your own website.  
Find an eCommerce platform builder, you don't need any coding skills to "design" your website. You can use any of the Website Builder Tools online like wix.com, Weebly.com, BigCommerce, Shopify, …  
Project II: Smart Digital Transformation  
Present an AI-enabled innovation model which has either transformed the industry in user behavior or industry operations.  
An introduction of the business model and the data, technology and business management  
The development of this business model from beginning to present and explain the success factors of each stage  
The impact of this innovative business model on user behaviors and business operations.  
A similar business model in another country and compare the similarity and difference between.  
Explain why this model is transformational.  
For instance: Uber with Web 2.0 technology has changed the way people travel in a city and automobile industry. A similar case in Asia is Grab which was enabled by  
web 2.0 and AI and changed the urban living in Asian countries including Singapore, Malaysia and Vietnam.  
AIOT with moist sensor and data analytics in the rice field has changed the agriculture industry with more accurate water and fertilizer in field and bring up production and better prediction of the production. 
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.