國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：成果導向的策略領導力
#####  Course Name: Result-based Strategic Leadership
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：933859001 Course No.933859001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國營碩一、國營碩二 Course Department:International Master of Business Administration/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：劉秀明 Instructor: LIU HSIU-MIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：日678 Session: sun15-18
##  課程簡介Course Description
The course teaches students the principles of result-based leadership, strategy, and performance management. Students will learn to use Objective Key Results (OKRs) and the Balanced Scorecard to drive performance and achieve strategic objectives. The course covers critical topics such as assessing organizational performance and making informed data-driven decisions. Students will also learn how to navigate complex leadership challenges such as managing change, leading diverse teams, and fostering a culture of innovation. By the end of the course, students will be able to apply these concepts and techniques to real-world situations, becoming influential leaders who can drive positive change in their organizations.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 商業管理能力 Students will acquire and apply expertise in business administration.
  * B. 全球具有亞洲特色的企業倫理,社會責任及永續關懷 Students will contribute to business ethics, socail responsibility, and sustainable development globally with Asia Characteristics
  * C. 具創新能力、創業家精神及面對變革的能力 Students can demonstrate innovative ability, entrepreneurship and capabilities to manage change.
  * D. 具全球視野與亞洲觀點之執行能力 Students will be able to analyze problems from global view with an Asia perspective and develop high execution capability.
  * E. 全球領導力 Students will develop global leadership capabilities.
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The course aims to provide learners with a systematic understanding of leadership and its role in strategic planning and execution of organizational transformation through pedagogical learning of business processes with empirical case discussions. 
Learning outcomes:
  * Apply principles of leadership, governance and management, which include creating a vision, empowering others, fostering collaboration and guiding decision making.
  * Assess market opportunities together with understanding current global challenges and business situations.
  * Design a market-based strategic plan and implementation strategies.
  * Develop performance management system for effective execution of strategies.
  * Guide the selection and usage of performance management tools for effective implementation of strategies.
  * Communicate audience-based content of the strategies and mission of the enterprise.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
Week |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and Homework  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Orientation to change and leadership |  Introduction Change and today’s leadership  Readings: The next globalization Everything you know about strategic leadership |  Knowing the peers Reporting: An exercise with ChatGPT topic search  
2 |  Understanding of leadership |  Strategic orientation Strategic thinking and acting Readings: How CEOs define vulnerability  The resilience imperative |  Article presentation Proposing final project  
3 |  Strategic leadership role in an organization |  Leading through uncertainties Strategic transformation Readings: Bold transformation  Generative AI led by people |  Article presentation Reporting: Vision and core values statements  
4 |  Strategy and Performance System Development |  Leadership for change Review of strategic planning process Readings: Innovation for weathering uncertainty  Reimagining the BSC  |  Article presentation Project discussion  
5 |  Systematic Implementation of Strategies |  OKR and BSC. Strategy implementation process |  BSC and OKR exercise  
6 |  Leadership for superior performance |  Support system for the leaders  Leading innovation  |  Group presentation and discussion  
7 |  |  |   
8 |  |  |   
9 |  |  |   
10 |  |  |   
11 |  |  |   
12 |  |  |   
13 |  |  |   
14 |  |  |   
15 |  |  |   
16 |  |  |   
17 |  |  |   
18 |  |  |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.