國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：數位行銷
#####  Course Name: Digital Marketing
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：933865001 Course No.933865001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國營碩一、國營碩二 Course Department:International Master of Business Administration/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：朴星俊、陳冠儒 Instructor: PARK SUNG JUN/CHEN KUAN-JU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一FGH Session: mon19-22
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course will acquaint students with practical knowledge and analytical skills necessary to create, evaluate, and execute digital marketing campaigns. This course looks at the advertising, entertainment, and media channels that make up digital marketing and explains how these tools fit into a company’s integrated marketing communication strategies. Using real-world examples from large corporations and small businesses, students will explore how marketing professionals embrace online networks, digital content, and other practices (e.g., SEO/SEM, eWOM, mobile, location-based, in-game advertising, etc.) to engender brand awareness, buzz, and desired consumer behaviors.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 商業管理能力 Students will acquire and apply expertise in business administration.
  * B. 全球具有亞洲特色的企業倫理,社會責任及永續關懷 Students will contribute to business ethics, socail responsibility, and sustainable development globally with Asia Characteristics
  * C. 具創新能力、創業家精神及面對變革的能力 Students can demonstrate innovative ability, entrepreneurship and capabilities to manage change.
  * D. 具全球視野與亞洲觀點之執行能力 Students will be able to analyze problems from global view with an Asia perspective and develop high execution capability.
  * E. 全球領導力 Students will develop global leadership capabilities.
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course will:
  1. Provide insights about and experience with digital and social media technologies. 
  1. Emphasize the importance of managing a business/organization’s online presence and reputation through digital and social communication tools.
  1. Provide awareness of ethical, legal, and privacy issues when using online outlets for digital marketing. Stress the significance of listening to, participating in, and monitoring online conversations. 
  1. Increase knowledge of the implications and need for evaluation when incorporating digital marketing strategies in an integrated marketing communication campaign.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
18週18 weeks | 無彈性補充教學週No flexible supplemental instruction week  
TENTATIVE READING ASSIGNMENTS AND SCHEDULE
*The following is a general plan for the course and is subject to change if necessary. 
Week |  Date |  Instructor |  Topic |  Readings/Activities  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  2/17 |  Dr. Park |  [_Introduction_] Basics of Marketing [_Place_] Digital Marketing |  Sell Direct-to-Consumer or Through Amazon? (HBR Case Study)  
2 |  2/24 |  Dr. Park |  [_Product_] Generative AI and AI-driven Branding  |  Tailor Brands: Artificial Intelligence Driven Branding  
(Harvard: 519017)  
3 |  3/3 |  Dr. Park |  [_Consumer Behavior_] AI & IoT Adoption |  Voice War: Hey Google vs. Alexa vs. Siri (Harvard: 718519)  
4 |  3/10 |  Dr. Park |  [_Promotion_] AI Influencers & Metaverse-based Advertising |  BTS: Success and Risk with Fans and Influencers on Social Media (IVEY: W21227)  
5 |  3/17 |  Dr. Park |  [_Marketing Research_] Big Data and AI Analytics  |  Predicting Consumer Tastes with Big Data at Gap (Harvard: 517115)  
6 |  3/24 |  Both |  Guest Speaker & Final Project Discussions  
7 |  3/31 |  Dr. Chen |  The Role of Social Media Marketing  |  Social Media War 2021: Snap vs. Facebook vs. TikTok  (Harvard: 9721443)  
8 |  4/7 |  Dr. Chen |  Identifying Target Audiences  |  _Guest Speaker_  
9 |  4/14 |  Dr. Chen |  Rules of Engagement for SMM  |  How Augmented Reality Can - and Can't - Help Your Brand  (HBR)  
10 |  4/21 |  Both |  FINAL GROUP PROJECT PRESENTATIONS  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.