國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際財務
#####  Course Name: International Finance
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：933915001 Course No.933915001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國營碩一、國營碩二 Course Department:International Master of Business Administration/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：繆志鵬 Instructor: MIU CHI PANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間： Session: 
##  課程簡介Course Description
Central to the understanding of international financial management is the concept of exchange rate risks. We will study the economics underlying the determination of exchange rates and their parity relationships. We will discuss the foreign exchange markets and the tools that can be used to hedge against exchange rate risks such as option, forward, futures, and swap contracts. We will also examine how the accounting and economic exchange rate exposures can be effectively managed. Finally, we will consider how capital budgeting can be conducted in an international setting. This course is taught primarily through lectures, readings, cases, in-class discussion, and assignment.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 商業管理能力 Students will acquire and apply expertise in business administration.
  * B. 全球具有亞洲特色的企業倫理,社會責任及永續關懷 Students will contribute to business ethics, socail responsibility, and sustainable development globally with Asia Characteristics
  * C. 具創新能力、創業家精神及面對變革的能力 Students can demonstrate innovative ability, entrepreneurship and capabilities to manage change.
  * D. 具全球視野與亞洲觀點之執行能力 Students will be able to analyze problems from global view with an Asia perspective and develop high execution capability.
  * E. 全球領導力 Students will develop global leadership capabilities.
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The goal of this course is to examine the factors encountered by multinational financial manager in making financing and investment decisions with a global perspective. It also involves the understanding of the macroeconomic environment governing international business.
Upon completion of this course, students will be able to complete the following key tasks:
  * Appreciate the financial challenges and opportunities encountered by multinational corporations.
  * Understand the economic determinants of foreign exchange rate and the role of the central bank in the foreign exchange (FX) and money markets.
  * Recognize the relations among interest rate, inflation rate, and foreign exchange rate in the spot and forward markets.
  * Measure and manage accounting and economic foreign exchange exposures.
  * Determine the cost of capital of multinational corporations.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
LECTURE | DATE | MAIN TOPICS AND DESCRIPTIONS | TEXTBOOK CHAPTER | EVENT  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | May 8 (Thu) | 
  * Introduction
  * Some basic concepts
| Ch. 1 and 2 |   
2 | May 10 (Sat) | 
  * Determination of exchange rate
  * Role of central bank
| Ch. 2 and 3 |   
3 | May 12 (Mon) | 
  * Monetary system
  * Purchasing power parity
| Ch. 3, 4.1-4.2 |   
4 | May 15  
(Thu) | 
  * Fisher effects
  * Interest rate parity (Part 1)
| Ch. 4.3-4.5 | 
  * Quiz #1
5 | May 22  
(Thu) | 
  * Interest rate parity (Part 2)
  * Unbiased nature of forward rate
| Ch. 4.5-4.8 |   
6 | May 25  
(Sun) | 
  * Spot FX markets
  * Forward contracts
| Ch. 6 | 
  * Quiz #2
  * Assignment due in class
7 | May 26  
(Mon) | 
  * Midterm exam (no class)
|  | 
  * Take-home mid-term exam (students have two days to complete the exam)
8 | May 29  
(Thu) | 
  * Futures contracts
  * Currency options
| Ch. 7 |   
9 | June 2  
(Mon) | 
  * Interest rate and currency swaps
| Ch. 8.1 | 
  * Quiz #3
10 | June 5  
(Thu) | 
  * Measuring and managing FX exposures (Part 1)
| Ch. 9, 10 |   
11 | June 8  
(Sun) | 
  * Measuring and managing FX exposures (Part 2)
| Ch. 9, 10 |   
12 | June 9  
(Mon) | 
  * Measuring and managing FX exposures (Part 3)
| Ch. 9, 10 |   
13 | June 12 (Thu) | 
  * International cost of capital
  * Capital budgeting
| Ch. 15 |   
14 | June 14 (Sat) | 
  * Course wrap up and revision
|  | 
  * Quiz #4
  * Case report due in class
15 | June 16  
(Mon) | 
  * Final exam
|  |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.