國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：新媒體、科技與社會專題
#####  Course Name: New Media, Technology and Society
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZM1002001 Course No.ZM1002001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：全創碩一、全創碩二 Course Department:Global Communication and Innovation Technology/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：李怡志、謝佩璇 Instructor: LI I-CHIH/HSIEH PEI-HSUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四678 Session: thu15-18
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed as a semi-seminar format. It begins with an introduction to novel technologies in mass media, followed by discussions on various societal topics, including (but not limited to) social justice, social advocacy, social impact, social equity, social responsibility, social innovation, social change, social movements, social entrepreneurship, social inclusion, and social cohesion. New technologies, such as genAI-RAG, LLM, and VR/AR/MR/XR, are also introduced, complemented by hands-on practice sessions. The course includes invited talks, workshops, field visits, and guest lectures by industry experts. Students are expected to complete individual assignments and collaborate on group activities and projects. This course aims to transform students by equipping them with the skills and mindset needed to tackle challenges arising from emerging media, technology, and societal shifts.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 資訊處理能力 Information Processing
  * B. 敘事能力 Narrative
  * C. 媒介素養 Media Literary
  * D. 跨文化傳播能力 Cross-Cultural Communication 
  * E. 創新能力 Innovation
  * F. 媒介實作能力 Media Practice
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  * Students can gain an understanding of the learning concepts behind state-of-the-art technologies in new media.
  * Students can experience how these new technologies contribute to shaping the future of society.
  * Students can enhance their technical proficiency in adopting and applying new technologies to effectively execute individual/group assigned tasks.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 7 週 Week 7 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week |  Date |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and HW  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  Feb 20 |  Intro. |  Syllabus Review, Account Setup |  Lecture   
2 |  Feb 27 |  GenAI [ Da Yong building 210 _207_ ] |  Intro. to Generative AI Image and Video |  Lecture (Prof. Li)  
3 |  Mar 06 |  Generative AI and Creativity |  Lecture (Prof. Li)  
4 |  Mar 13 |  Generative AI and Innovation |  Lecture (Prof. Li)  
5 |  Mar 20 |  Generative AI in Communication |  Lecture (Prof. Li)  
6 |  Mar 27 |  Generative AI and Zeitgeist |  Lecture (Prof. Li)  
7 |  Apr 03 |  [NO CLASS] Group Project Presentation |  Video Recordings  
8 |  Apr 10 |  Digitalized Society |  Invited Talk and Lecture - Consulting and Healthcare [ Da Yong building TBA: either 21 _207_]  |  Lecture and I.T. 1/6  
9 |  Apr 17 |  Arts and Humanity [ Da Yong building 210 _315_ ]  |  Lecture and I.T. 2/6  
10 |  Apr 24 |  Local site (confirmed) [ Off Campus ] |  Lecture and G.T. 1/3  
11 |  May 01 |  Invited Talk and Lecture [ Da Yong building 21 _207_ ]  |  Lecture and I.T. 3/6  
12 |  May 08 |  Invited Talk and Lecture [Administration Building 7th Floor Meeting Room #1] |  Lecture and G.T. 2/3  
13 |  May 15 |  RAG |  Finance and Marketing [ Maker Space @ Dah Hsian Library 5F]  |  Lecture and I.T. 4/6  
14 |  May 22 |  Intro. to RAG [ Information Building 4F, no.5 computer room ] |  Lecture  
15 |  May 29 |  Workshop (follow-up May 22)  **2:30 ~ 4:00 NCCU Computer Center, B1 Floor, Lecture Hall;  
4:00 ~ 6:00 NCCU Computer Center, 3rd Floor, PC Room #2** |  Lecture and I.T. 5/6  
16 |  Jun 05 |  Outreach |  Invited Talk and Lecture  
[Administration Building 7th Floor Meeting Room #2]  |  G.T. 3/3  
17 |  Jun 12 |  Local + Global sites (confirmed) [ Off Campus ] |  Double check all GTs and I.T. 6/6  
18 |  Jun 19 |  Invited Talk Sustainability + Innovation  
[Administration Building 7th Floor Meeting Room #2]  |  ~~Online I.T. 6/6~~ Internship Recruitment  
I.T. = Individual Task; G.T. = Group Task
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.