國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際傳播：跨媒體企製與營運
#####  Course Name: Global Communication: Cross-media Planning, Production and Management
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZM1899001 Course No.ZM1899001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：全創碩一、全創碩二 Course Department:Global Communication and Innovation Technology/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：余佳璋 Instructor: YU CHIA-CHANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三567 Session: wed14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to equip students with the skills needed to navigate the dynamic landscape of global communication from a uniquely Taiwanese perspective. Focusing on Taiwan’s commitment to free expression, cultural exchange, and responsible journalism, the course explores essential cross-media strategies, planning, and production techniques that align with Taiwan’s democratic values and regional influence.
Through the lens of Radio Taiwan International and Taiwan Plus’ mission to promote cultural understanding and factual reporting, participants will learn to create and manage content across multiple platforms, including radio, television, digital, and social media. The curriculum emphasizes the importance of storytelling, audience engagement, and cross-cultural sensitivity on a global scale to foster connections with diverse audiences worldwide. 
This course offers a comprehensive foundation for participants to become adept in addressing contemporary media challenges. The course aims to empower students to craft impactful narratives that resonate with international audiences while advancing Taiwan’s leadership in media integrity and cultural diplomacy in the Asia-Pacific region and beyond by bridging Taiwan's unique perspective with global communication principles.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 資訊處理能力 Information Processing
  * B. 媒介實作能力 Media Practice
  * C. 媒介素養 Media Literary
  * D. 創新能力 Innovation
  * E. 敘事能力 Narrative
  * F. 跨文化傳播能力 Cross-Cultural Communication 
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
1. To learn the trend of global communication by different media formats and methods of the present.
2. Knowing and conducting the international or regional news reporting production process. 
3. Able to manage the international coverage by case study.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 7 週 Week 7 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
|  Course Week |  Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
R16 +2 weeks |  Week  |  〇Course-related online learning 〇Capstone self-learning 〇Completion of designated after-course assignment or work 〇Participation in on-campus or off-campus learning activities or community service related to the course 〇Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
Week  |  〇Course-related online learning 〇Capstone self-learning 〇Completion of designated after-course assignment or work 〇Participation in on-campus or off-campus learning activities or community service related to the course 〇Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
〇17 +1 weeks |  Week  |  〇Course-related online learning 〇Capstone self-learning 〇Completion of designated after-course assignment or work 〇Participation in on-campus or off-campus learning activities or community service related to the course 〇Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
〇18 weeks |  No flexible supplemental instruction week  
Week |  Date |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and Homework |  Speaker  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  2/19 14:10-17:00 |  Why Does Taiwan Need International Public Media Services? |  Overview of Taiwan’s International media landscape and the importance of public broadcasting for global outreach. |  Understand the need for Taiwan’s international media presence and its impact. |  TBC  
2 |  2/26 |  Reporting on China—Why From Taiwan and How? |  Discuss Rti’s strengths and strategies for reporting China. |  Explore Taiwan’s unique approach to China-related issues in international reporting. |  TBC  
3 |  3/5 |  Global Mandarin-speaking Audience—Why Does It Matter to Reach? |  Understanding the strategic importance of Mandarin-speaking audiences worldwide. |  Analyze the influence of Mandarin-speaking media on a global scale. |  TBC  
4 |  3/12 |  Field Trip to Rti |  A hands-on visit to Rti’s facilities to observe operations and meet professionals. |  Provide students with real-world exposure to RTI’s broadcasting operations. |  TBC  
5 |  3/19 |  Communication and International Relations—English and European Language Services |  Exploring Rti’s role in diplomatic outreach. Planning/ Production |  Highlight European audiences’ significance in Taiwan’s diplomacy efforts. |  TBC  
6 |  3/26 |  Communication and International Relations—Asian and Southeast Asian Language Services |  Focus on broadcasting to Asian regions and serving Taiwan’s immigrant communities. |  Examine Rti’s strategy for Asian regions and domestic immigrant services. |  TBC  
7 |  4/2 |  No class; Flexible instruction |  NCCU calls off. |  |   
8 |  4/9 (4/2 call off) |  The Next Steps: Engagement and the Future of International Broadcasting |  An overview of Rti’s global collaborations and the educational role of Rti Academy. |  Future initiatives in international engagement and training. |  TBC  
9 |  4/16 |  Student Program Proposal Presentations |  Students present program proposals tailored to international audiences. |  Apply knowledge to create feasible media program proposals for specific audiences. |  TBC  
10 |  4/23 |  Digital TV News report: pitching and coverage from the TaiwanPlus’ cases. |  Introduction and practice for digital news reporting, focus on the story pitching and coverages. |  Provide students with the primary steps in the news desk.  |  Andrew Ryan  
11 |  4/30 |  Digital TV News report: story writing and post-production. |  Introduction and practice for digital news, focus on story writing and post-production |  Knowing the basics and methods for modern digital news writing  |  Andrew Ryan  
12 |  5/7 |  Special report planning and conducting for news production. |  Learning for special reports or news in-depth series plan and production know-how. |  Leading students to know about the approach for special report planning |  Senior News producer  
13 |  5/14 |  International correspondent and making news coverage |  An introduction from a senior correspondent to know more skills and realities. |  Case study and experience sharing |  Dyvia Gopalan  
14 |  5/21 |  What’s new on social media regarding TaiwanPlus’ performance? |  Knowing the ways to report current news issues on social media. |  Provide students with knowledge of social team production and conducting. |  Oliver Hsu  
15 |  5/28 |  Social media’s challenges for a new reporter. |  Discussing the issues when reporters need to broadcast online and on social media. |  Provide students with new ideas and rethink the role of the reporter. |  Oliver Hsu  
16 |  6/4 |  Why does the South China Sea matter? A case study from Taiwan Talks program performance. |  Introduction to the format and organizing a news talk show for some hottest topics. |  Understand the issues and how news talk shows can play an influencer role. |  Yin Khvat Michael Yu  
17 |  6/11 |  Final presentation. |  Setting ideas and concluding with the course learning. |  Students deliver the final essay and present it in class. |  Michael Yu  
18 |  6/18 |  No class; Flexible instruction |  |  |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.