國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：女性電影與媒體文化
#####  Course Name: Women's Cinema and Media Culture
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZM1895001 Course No.ZM1895001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：全創碩一、全創碩二 Course Department:Global Communication and Innovation Technology/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：卓庭伍 Instructor: CHO TING-WU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二567 Session: tue14-17 
##  課程簡介Course Description
The course is designed to provide students with a comprehensive understanding of the epistemology and research methodologies pertinent to Asian film studies. Through critical examination of literature and specifc cases of natioanl and regional cinemas (with a focus on East and Southeast Asia), the course moves beyond existing paradigms such as national cinema, transnatioanl cinema, and traditional area studies to explore alternative perspectives on trans-Asian film and media culture. Topics range from film movements, gender, ethnicity, class, to cultural policy, film industry, censorship, stardom, film festival, and genre, as well as the cinematic and media landscapes reshaped by contemporary geopolitical formations and digital techonologies. The course serves as a platform to develop innovative research projects with cross-disciplinary approaches and trans-regional perspectives.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 媒介實作能力 Media Practice
  * B. 媒介素養 Media Literary
  * C. 資訊處理能力 Information Processing
  * D. 創新能力 Innovation
  * E. 敘事能力 Narrative
  * F. 跨文化傳播能力 Cross-Cultural Communication 
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  1. With a focus on historiography and methodology, the course provides students with overarching knowledge and cross-disciplinary methodologies pertinent to Asian film, media, and cultural studies.
  2. Students are urged to initiate research projects that transcend disciplinary and geopolitical boundaries.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Week |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and Homework  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction: Conceptualizing Asian Cinema(s) | 
  1. Ciecko, Anne Tereska. "Theorizing Asian Cinema(s)." In Anne Tereska Ciecko, ed. _Contemporary Asian Cinema_ , pp 13-31.
  2. Olivia Khoo. “Introduction: Theorizing Asian Cinema as a Regional Cinema.” In _Asian Cinema: A Regional View_ , pp1-19.
  3. Hamilton, Annette, ‘A national cinema in Cambodia?’, in Gaëtan Margirier and Jean-Pierre Giminez (eds), Le Cinéma d’Asie du Sud-Est /Southeast Asian Cinema, Lyons: Asia-Expo, 2013, pp. 68–73.
|  Screening: _Golden Slumbers_ (Davy Chou, 2011), 96 min.  
2 |  Nation, History, and Film | 
  1. Berry, Chris, “From National Cinema to Cinema and the National,” _Theorizing National Cinema_. Eds. Vitali, Valentina and Paul Willemen, London: BFI, 2006, 148-157.
  2. Willemen, Paul, “The National Revisited,” _Theorizing National Cinema_. Eds. Vitali, Valentina and Paul Willemen, London: BFI, 2006, 2-43.
  3. Ciecko, Anne, “Festivalizations and Cultural Constructions of “Asian Cinema,” in _The Routledge Companion to Asian Cinema_ , eds. Zhen Zhang, Shangjoon Lee, Debashree Mukherjee, Intan Paramaditha, 2024.
|  Screening: _Good Men, Good Women_ (Hou Hsiao-Hsien, 1995), 108 min.  
3 |  The Other from the East: Auteurs and Kaijus | 
  1. _Asian Cinemas: A Reader and Guide_ , section 1.
  2. Kathe Geist. “Ozu and the Nation” in _Theorizing National Cinema_ , pp. 114-128.
  3. Mitsuhiro Yoshimoto, “National/International/Transnational: The Concept of Trans-Asian Cinema and the Cultural Politics of Film Criticism” in _Theorizing National Cinema_ , pp. 254-261. 
  4. Andrew Higson. “The Limiting Imagination of National Cinema” in _Transnational Cinema_ , pp. 15-26.
|  Screening: _Shin Godzilla_ (Anno Hideaki, Higuchi Shinji, 2016), 120 min, Clips:  _Good Morning_ (Ozu Yasujiro, 1959), _Godzilla_(Ishiro Honda, 1954), _Rashomon_ (Kurosawa Akira, 1950)  
4 |  Transnational Kung fu Stardom | 
  1. _Asian Cinemas: A Reader and Guide_ , section 2 (chapter 6,7), section 7.
  2. Lau, Dorothy. (2021). Mediating Action and Speech: Michelle Yeoh’s Star Discourse in Pan-Pacific Connections. 10.1007/978-981-16-0313-6_2.
|  Screening: _Police Story III – Super Cop_ (Stanley Tong, 1992), 96 min. Clips: _Everything Everywhere All at Once_ , (Daniel Kwan, Daniel Scheinert, 2022), _Tomorrow Never Dies_ (Roger Spottiswoode, 1997), _The Way of the Dragon_ (Bruce Lee, 1972), _Once Upon a Time in China_ (Tsui Hark, 1991).  
5 |  No Class: National Day |  |   
6 |  Women in Asian Cinema: Genre, Independent Filmmakers, Film Festivals | 
  1. Intan Paramaditha, “Transnational Women’s Cinema in Southeast Asia,” in _The Routledge Companion to Asian Cinema_ , eds. Zhen Zhang, Shangjoon Lee, Debashree Mukherjee, Intan Paramaditha, 2024.
  2. Treglia, Laura, “From Myth to Cult: Tragic Heroes, Parady and Gender Politics in the 1960-1970s ‘Bad Girlds’ Cinema of Japan,” Guarné, Blai, Artur Lozano-Méndez, and Dolores P. Martinez, eds.  _Persistently Postwar: Media and the Politics of Memory in Japan_. 1st ed. Berghahn Books, 2019, 103-121.
  3. Treglia, Laura, “Star, Scorpion, and the Snowblood: Kaji Meiko’s multiplicities and the Japanese culture industry,” Japan Forum, 35:1, 2023, 32-53.
|  Screening: _Marlina the Murderer in Four Acts_ (Mouly Surya, 1980), 90 min. Clips: _Lady Snowblood_ (Fujita Toshiya, 1973), _Female Prisoner #701_ (Ito Shunya, 1972)  
7 |  Queering Asia [Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand] | 
  1. Yue, Audrey. "Queer Asian Cinema and Media Studies: From Hybridity to Critical Regionality."  _Cinema Journal_ 53, no. 2 (2014): 145-151.
  2. Berry, Chris. "Asian Values, Family Values: Film, Video, and Lesbian and Gay Identities." Journal of Homosexuality 40.3-4(2001): 211-231. 
  3. Hong, Guo-Juin. “Anywhere but Here: The Postcolonial City in Tsai Ming-Liang’s Taipei Trilogy.” In  _Taiwan Cinema: A Contested Nation on Screen_. By Guo-Juin Hong, 159–181. New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2011.
  4. Khoo, Olivia. “Queer Asian Cinema, Female Authorship and the Short Film Format.” In  _Asian Cinema: A Regional View_ , 77–94. Edinburgh University Press, 2021. 
|  Screening: _Rebels of the Neon God_ (Tsai Ming-liang, 2015), 106 min. Clips: _Walk Walk_ (Tan Pin-Pin, 2023), _Memories of My Body_ (Garin Nugroho, 2018), _Tropical Malady_ (Apichatpong Weerasethakul, 2004), TBA  
8 |  Indigenous Voices | 
  1. Grewal, A. (2016). Contested Tibetan landscapes in the films of Pema Tseden.  _Journal of Chinese Cinemas_ ,  _10_(2), 135–149. 
  2. Berry, Chris. (2016). Pema Tseden and the Tibetan road movie: space and identity beyond the ‘minority nationality film.’  _Journal of Chinese Cinemas_ ,  _10_(2), 89–105. 
  3. Barnet, Robert, “DV-made Tibet: Domestic Videos, Elite Films, and the Work of Pema Tseden,” in Zhen, Zhang and Angela Zito.  _DV-Made China: Digital Subjects and Social Transformations after Independent Film._ University of Hawai'i Press, 2015, pp119-162.
  4. Sterk, Darryl. (2014). Ironic indigenous primitivism: Taiwan’s first ‘native feature’ in an era of ethnic tourism.  _Journal of Chinese Cinemas_ ,  _8_(3), 209–225. 
  5. Berry, Chris. “Taiwan’s Ingidenous Peoples and Cinema: From Colonial Mascot to Fourht Cinema?,” Positioning Taiwan in a Global Context. Eds. Bi-yu Chang and Pei-yin Lin.  London: Routledge, 2019.
|  Screening: Tharlo (Pema Tseden, 2015), 138 min. Clips: _The Search_ (Pema Tseden, 2009), _Old Dog_ (Pema Tseden , 2011), _Finding Sayun_ (Laha Mebow, 2011), _Dear Rice Wine, You are Defeated_ (Mayaw Biho, 1998)  
9 |  From Cultural Criticism to Urban Generation  | 
  1. _Asian Cinemas: A Reader and Guide_ , section 1.
  2. Zhang, Zhen, “Intrduction: Bearing Witness: Chinese Urban Cinema in the Era of ‘Transformation’(Zhuanxing).” In _The Urban Generation: Chinese Cinema and Society_ _at the Turn of the Twenty-first Century_ , ed. Zhen Zhang (Durham: Duke UP, 2007) : 1-20.
  3. Voci, Paola. "Quasi-Documentary, Cellflix and Web Spoofs: Chinese Movies' Other Visual Pleasures." _Senses of Cinema_ 41 (Oct.-Dec. 2006).
|  Screening: _Xiao Wu_ (Jia Zhangke, 1998), 108 min. Clips: _Yellow Earth_ (Chen Kaige, 1984), _Disorder_ (Huang Weikai, 2008), _Unknown Pleasures_ (Jia Zhangke, 2002), _Beijing Bastards_ (Zhang Yuan, 1993), Suzhou River (Lou Ye, 2000)  
10 |  Continuation of a New Wave? Realism, Intimacy, and Politics in the Fallen City | 
  1. Jessica Siu-yin Yeung (2018) “Ann Hui’s Allegorical Cinema”, _Cultural Conflict in Hong Kong: Angles on a Coherent Imaginary_ , ed. Jason S. Polley, Vinton Poon, and Lian-Hee Wee, 87-104, Singapore: Palgrave Macmillan, 2018. 
  2. Chu, Yiu-Wai, “Will Out Time Come? Ann Hui’s Fallen City,” in _Main Melody Films: Hong Kong Directors in Mainland China_ , Edinburgh, 2022; online edn.
  3. Zhang, Yingjin, “7 Cinema and national/regional cultures, 1979-89” in _Chinese National Cinema_ , New York: Routledge, 2004, 225-258.
  4. Stringer, Julian. “Boat People: Second Thoughts on Text and Context.” In Chris Berry ed., Chinese Films in Focus: 25 Takes (BFI, 2003): 15-22.
|  Screening: _Our Time Will Come_ (Ann Hui, 2017), 133 min. Clips: _Boat People_ (Ann Hui, 1982), _The Postmodern Life of My Aunt_ (Ann Hui, 2007), _Cops and Robbers_ (Alex Cheung, 1979), _Jumping Ash_ (Po-Chih Leong, Josephine Siao, 1976)  
11 |  Korean New Wave and Transnational Screen Connections | 
  1. Lee, Hyangjin, “South Korea: Film on the Global Stage,” _Contemporary Asian Cinema_ , 182-192.
  2. Kim, Soyoung, “From Cine-mania to Blockbusters and Trans-cinema: Reflections on Recent South Korean Cinema” in _Theorising National Cinema_ , pp. 186-201.
Shin, Jeeyoung. "Globalization and New Korean Cinema." in Chi-Yun Shin and Julian Stringer, eds. New Korean Cinema (New York: New York UP, 2005): 51-63. |  Screening: _Oldboy_ (Park Chan-wook, 2003), 120 min. Clips: _Memories of Murder_ (Bong Joon-ho, 2003), _Peppermint Candy_ (Lee Chang-dong, 2000)  
12 |  Pan-Asian Horror Tradition, Transnational Production | 
  1. _Contemporary Asian Cinema_ , intro. & chap 1, pp. 1-31. & chap. 4.
  2. Ingawanij, May Adadol, “ _Nang Nak_ : Thai bourgeois heritage cinema,” Inter-Asia Cultural Studies, 8:2, 180-193. 
  3. Adam Knee. “Thailand Haunted: The Power of the Past in the Contemporary Thai Film” in _Horror International_ , pp. 141-59.
  4. Stephen Crofts, “Reconceptualizing National Cinema/s” in _Theorising National Cinema_ , pp. 44-58.
  5. Shin, Chi-Yun. “The Art of Branding: Tartan ‘Asia Extreme’ Films.” In _Horror to the Extreme_ : 85-100.
|  Screening: _Nang Nak_ (Nonzee Nimibutr, 1999), 100 min. Clips: _Three_(Nonzee Nimibutr, Kim Ji-woon, Peter Chan, 2002), _Double Vision_ (Chen Kuo-fu, 2002)  
13 |  Performing Identity: New Waves in Southeast Asia  | 
  1. _Contemporary Asian Cinema_ , chaps. 6 & 7.
  2. H. Misbach Yusa Biran. “The History of Indonesia Cinema at a Glance.” In _Film in South East Asia; Views from the Region_ , pp. 211-252.
  3. Benjamin McKay. “Auteur-ing Malaysia: Yasmin Ahmad and Dreamed Communities.” In _Glimpses of Freedom: Independent Cinema in Southeast Asia_ , pp. 107-120.
  4. Benedict Anderson. _Imagined Communities: Reflections on the Origin and Spread of Nationalism_ (excerpts). 
  5. Benedict Anderson. _Specter of Comparisons: Nationalism, Southeast Asia, and the World_ (excerpts).
|  Screening: _Opera Jawa_ (Garin Nugroho, 2006), 120 min, _Sept_ (Yasmin Ahmad, 2005), 104 min, or _Talentime_(Yasmin Ahmad, 2009), 120 min. Clips:  _The Three Sisters_ (Bu Wan Cang, 1957), _Tiga Dara/Three Maidens_ (Usmar Ismail, 1957)  
14 |  Hybridity in Films: Case in the Philippines | 
  1. _Contemporary Asian Cinema_ , chap. 2.
  2. _Asian Cinemas_ , chap 5.
  3. José B. Capino. _Dream Factories of a Former Colony: American Fantasies, Philippine Cinema_ , chap. 6.
|  Screening: _Kinatay_ (Brilliante Mendoza, 2009), 105 min. Clips: TBA  
15 |  Titillation in the House: Trans-Asian/national Melodrama | 
  1. Oh, Se-Mi, “The Cat’s Cradle: Middle-Class Optics of Desire in Kim Ki-Young’s The Housemaid,”  _Transgression in Korea: Beyond Resistance and Control_ , edited by Juhn Y. Ahn, University of Michigan Press, 2018, 123–38. 
  2. Lee, Yun-Jong,“Woman in Ethnocultural Peril: South Korean Nationalist Erotic Films of the 1980s,”  _The Journal of Korean Studies (1979-)_ , vol. 21, no. 1, 2016, 101–35.
  3. Klein Christina, “Bong Joon-ho's Parasite as a Remake of Kim Ki-young's The Housemaid,” _in The Routledge Companion to Asian Cinema_ , eds. Zhen Zhang, Shangjoon Lee, Debashree Mukherjee, Intan Paramaditha, 2024.
  4. Teo, Stephen, “The Melodramatic Mode in Asian Cinema,” in _The Routledge Companion to Asian Cinema_ , eds. Zhen Zhang, Shangjoon Lee, Debashree Mukherjee, Intan Paramaditha, 2024.
|  Screening: _The Housemaid_ (Kim Ki-young, 1960) Clips: The _Housemaid_ (Im Sang-soo, 2010), _The Handmaiden_ (Park Chan-wook, 2016), _Parasite_ (Bong Joon Ho, 2019), _Love for Share_ (Nia Dinata, 2006)  
16 |  Presentation of Research Project |  5-10 min presentation of the final research project. |   
17 |  Flexible week |  |   
18 |  Flexible week |  |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.