國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際組織
#####  Course Name: International Organization
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZM1897001 Course No.ZM1897001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：全創碩一、全創碩二 Course Department:Global Communication and Innovation Technology/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：李瓊莉 Instructor: LEE CHYUNG LY 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12 
##  課程簡介Course Description
Attending the FIRST Class (Feb. 23) is required to enroll this course. You are free to drop the course if the introduction and discussion in the first class do not meet your expectation. BUT, if you miss the first class, you will not just be a week behind, but also miss the whole picture of what we are learning this semester. *
The objective of this course is to enhance the background knowledge of international organization and intergovernmental cooperation for students of international communication. Cases and readings will be focused on issues of regional/global security. (If you are interested in non-governmental organizations or economic/development issues, this course may not meet your expectations.)
At the global level, after a general introduction of the United Nations, including the concept and the institutional design for collective security, UN-led (or global) intergovernmental arrangements of tackling transnational issues, such as maritime security, terrorism, climate changes, and other non-traditional security challenges, will be highlighted. At the regional level, discussions will be focused on cases in the Asia-Pacific region. ASEAN-centered regional processes to manage transnational issues will be studied.
2-3 articles will be assigned each week. In order to examine perspectives from various culture, the weekly selections will cover publications authored across different regions. Students are required to complete the weekly readings BEFORE the class and ACTIVELY join class discussions. (The reading list will be available soon.) However, I will also use my own notes in class lectures.
Students are also required to conduct a case study in Asia and explore both global and regional approaches relevant to the management of that case. Students will make two individual presentations but will be paired to jointly work on a written report to evaluate the effectiveness of regional/global approaches to conflict management on their case choices. 
Cases suggested are
Tensions in the South China Sea
Terrorism in Southeast Asia (either in the Philippines or Indonesia)
Rohingya Refugee Crisis (or other man-made humanitarian disasters)
Health Insecurity during COVID-19 Pandemic
Natural Disasters in Southeast Asia (Haze, or climate-triggered disasters
Nuclear Issue in DPRK
Myanmar issue
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 資訊處理能力 Information Processing
  * B. 跨文化傳播能力 Cross-Cultural Communication 
  * C. 媒介實作能力 Media Practice
  * D. 媒介素養 Media Literary
  * E. 創新能力 Innovation
  * F. 敘事能力 Narrative
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
In the end of semester, students are expected to learn how states deal with transnational issues through inter-governmental arrangements at the global and the regional levels. Students will also have experience in conducting case study and team work.
By reading articles published across various regions, students are expected to be conscious of the impact of culture, rooted in historical and politico-societal differences, on news analyses. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 其他（請參閱每週課程進度與作業要求）Other (Please refer to the weekly course schedule and learning requirements)  
Weekly Activities
Week 1 (Feb. 23): Course Introduction
Read two news analyses together in class.
Discussion: 
What background knowledge do you need to understand the article?
What background knowledge do you need to write a solid response?
Pairing and case selection
Week 2 (March 1): Basic Concepts
  1. Aarie Glas and Marion Laurence, “Changing Norms in Practice: Noninterference in the UN and ASEAN”
  2. Michael N. Barnett Martha Finnemore, “Political Approaches”, _The Oxford Handbook on the United Nations_(2 ed.) Edited by Thomas G. Weiss and Sam Daws
Week 3 (March 8): UN、Collective Security、Peacekeeping
  1. Thomas G. Weiss Sam Daws, “The United Nations: Continuity and Change”
  2. Corinne Bara, “UN Peacekeeping” 
Week 4 (March 15): UN、Human Security、Refugee、Terrorism、Climate Change
  1. Haruko SATOH, Fighting for a Global Community in a Post-COVID World
  2. Fabien Merz, The United Nations and Counterterrorism 
Week 5 (March 22): UN and Taiwan
Professor’s note
Visit of Students from Chulalongkorn University, led by Professor Paul Busbarat
Week 6 (March 29): Korean Peninsula Security Issues and the United Nations
Guest Lecture: Dr. Hoo Chiew-Ping 
(Co-Founder of East Asian International Relations Caucus, Malaysia)
Week 7 (April 5): Spring Break, No Class
Week 8 (April 12): WHO、UNCLOS
Steven Menashi, Politics of the WHO
Daniel S. Cheever, Politics of the UNCLOS
Week 9 (April 19)
Individual Presentations (I): the global approach to manage the case you select. 
Students will comment to each other
Week 10 (April 26): mid-term exam.
  1. The UN in the Cambodia conflict: UNTAC
Take home exam、open book、essay questions (No Use of AI)
Questions will be sent at 9:00-9:10am. 
Answers has to be sent out to cllee@nccu.edu.tw by 12:00 noon.
Week 11 (May 3): Taiwan Security and Regional Organization
Guest Lecturer: Guermantes Lailari, Lt Col, USAF (ret) 
(Taiwan Fellow, Institute of National Defense and Security Research)
SEATO and Taiwan Security
Dr. Charles Chou, Former Secretary General of CTPECC, will sit in.
Week 12 (May 10): ASEAN and ASEAN-centered security arrangements
ARF、ADMM、ADMM Plus
How ASEAN Helped Southeast Asia
Tale Two Insstitutions
Week 13 (May 17): ASEAN Approaches to transnational issues
Terrorism、Cybersecurity、Climate Change
human rights, health security, HADR
At SLD 2023…
QUAD and HADR
Internet Governance and ASEAN
Week 14 (May 24): Individual Presentations (2): Regional Approaches
Students will comment to each other
Week 15 (May 31) Taiwan’s Participation in Regional Intergovernmental Cooperation
Dr. Charles Chou, Former Secretary General of CTPECC
Week 16 (June 7): Final Exam.
  1. Rebecca Barber, “The case for UN-supported, ASEAN-led negotiations on Myanmar”
  2. Amitav Acharya, “Multilateralism and the Changing World Order”
In class、open book、essay questions
Week 17 (June 14) Group Work (no formal class)
You will make your own arrangement to meet each other and show me the pictures or video of working together.
Week 18 (June21)
Final Joint Paper Due by 23:59, June 21
No need to submit your individual papers.
Files should be sent to cllee@nccu.edu.tw
####  其他： Others: no use of AI 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.