國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際新聞報導
#####  Course Name: International News Reporting
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZM1924001 Course No.ZM1924001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：全創碩一、全創碩二 Course Department:Global Communication and Innovation Technology/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：林翠絹 Instructor: LIN TSUI-CHUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course aims to teach the methodology and basic rules of journalism and how to construct news stories across all media forms in the proper form with the emphasis on proper structure, ethics and balance. All aspects of fundamental reporting and working principles will be addressed and prepare students to know the variety of approaches for news production. Through discussion and teamwork, students are thus able to learn the format and make quality international reports. This is a course focused on practical work in, and out, of the classroom and is hands-on. 
Students will be expected to deliver a news feature the subject of which will be agreed with Phil Smith. The news feature will contain multi-media elements including video, pictures graphics and text. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 媒介實作能力 Media Practice
  * B. 資訊處理能力 Information Processing
  * C. 跨文化傳播能力 Cross-Cultural Communication 
  * D. 敘事能力 Narrative
  * E. 媒介素養 Media Literary
  * F. 創新能力 Innovation
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
1. To understand the format and execute international news reporting and basic skills both text and visual.
2. To analyze a variety of issues and the norm of international news writing to a high standard. 
3. To be able to manage and conduct international coverage via news-editing skills and planning.
4. To behave ethically and with balance in news reporting activities.
5. To be confident of the basics of international news reporting and behavior as expected by leading media companies should the student ever face such an interview for employment.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 2 週 Week 2 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week |  Date |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and Homework  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  2/21 |  Course Introduction |  Before the introduction students should spend a few hours studying the international news wires. Read Phil Smith’s CV. |  Short rewrite exercise. 200 words  Prepare for a dummy newsplanning meeting  
2 |  2/28 |  Memorial day |  |   
3 |  3/7 |  News Editing |  Keep up with international news events and be up to speed with the major stories breaking around the world  |  Class discussion backed up with ongoing study of the international news wires  
4 |  3/14 |  Basic Journalistic Writing - introduction |  Keep up with international news events and be up to speed with the major stories breaking around the world |  Writing exercise  
5 |  3/21 |  Headlines and leads |  Keep up with international news events and be up to speed with the major stories breaking around the world |  Writing exercise  
6 |  3/28 |  Second paragraphs and more |  Keep up with international news events and be up to speed with the major stories breaking around the world |  Writing exercise  
7 |  4/4 |  Spring break/holiday |  |   
8 |  4/11 |  Use of quotes and questions |  Keep up with international news events and be up to speed with the major stories breaking around the world |  Writing exercise  
9 |  4/18 |  How to Ask Questions/TV Interviewing |  Keep up with international news events and be up to speed with the major stories breaking around the world |  Writing exercise  
10 |  4/25 |  News Scenario  |  Keep up with international news events and be up to speed with the major stories breaking around the world |  Class discussion group  
11 |  5/2 |  Appearing on camera  |  Keep up with international news events and be up to speed with the major stories breaking around the world |  Scriptwriting exercise  
12 |  5/9 |  Ethics/Legal Dangers |  Keep up with international news events and be up to speed with the major stories breaking around the world |  Short (400 word) essay on media ethics  
13 |  5/16 |  Business Writing |  Keep up with international news events and be up to speed with the major stories breaking around the world |  Writing exercise  
14 |  5/23 |  Features and Analysis |  Keep up with international news events and be up to speed with the major stories breaking around the world |  Writing exercise  
15 |  5/30 |  Journalist safety session |  Keep up with international news events and be up to speed with the major stories breaking around the world |  Class discussion group  
16 |  6/7 |  News scenario, planning and wrap up |  Keep up with international news events and be up to speed with the major stories breaking around the world |  Class discussion group  
17 |  6/13 |  Field trip (TBA) |  TaiwanPlus (TBA) |   
18 |  6/20 |  Flexible |  |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.