國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：數位敘事與新媒體科技
#####  Course Name: Digital Narratives and New Media Technology
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZM1937001 Course No.ZM1937001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：全創碩一、全創碩二、全創碩三 Course Department:Global Communication and Innovation Technology/M/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：蔡葵希 Instructor: COOK CHRISTINE LINDA 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to prepare students who are interested in careers in either journalism or the entertainment industries to engage in modern storytelling using the latest technology. We will be covering both fictional and real-life storytelling from practical, theoretical, and industrial angles. Starting with the fictional, we will learn how to craft a good story in English while simultaneously looking at the theories behind fictional stories and how they impact people. We will also be hearing from industry professionals who build and work with stories to bring them to life as audiovisual new media products. At the half-way point, we will transition into the journalistic style and learn about how to bring stories from history and current events to the modern audience using both text and new technologies like virtual and augmented reality.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 資訊處理能力 Information Processing
  * B. 跨文化傳播能力 Cross-Cultural Communication 
  * C. 敘事能力 Narrative
  * D. 媒介實作能力 Media Practice
  * E. 媒介素養 Media Literary
  * F. 創新能力 Innovation
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  1. Students should be able to craft an effective story – real and/or fictional – in English.
  2. Students should be able to produce new media products that convey stories, both real and fictional.
  3. Students should understand and be able to communicate about how the current journalism and entertainment industries use new media technologies in their work.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 3 週 Week 3 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Course Schedule & Requirements  
---  
Week |  Date |  Topic |  Course Content |  Required Readings |  Notes  
1 |  18/02 |  Introduction | 
  * Introducing the instructor
  * Going through the syllabus with students
  * Q&A with instructor
|  N/A |  Please bring something you can use to fill out a digital survey!  
2 |  25/02 |  Writing a fictional story – Part I | 
  * The anatomy of a story
  * Story formats: The Novella
  * Story formats: The Script
|  1, 2 |  N/A  
3 |  04/03 |  Flexible Learning Week – Work on your assignment!  
4 |  11/03 |  Writing a fictional story – Part II | 
  * Vocabulary choices and target audiences
  * Writing practice (demand writing)
|  3, 4 |  Please bring something to write with – either pencil and paper or a laptop.  
5 |  18/03 |  Emotions & Narrative | 
  * Basic theories of emotion (media and traditional psychology)
  * Creating self-transcendent experiences
Topics of importance around the world |  5, 6, 7 |  N/A  
6 |  25/03 |  Guest Lecture – Dr. Velli-Matti Karhulahti |  This will be a guest lecture given by an esteemed expert on video games, one of the newest ways to tell a story using new media technology. He will discuss how narrative works in video games and their unique considerations. |  N/A |  First written assignment due by 11:59pm  
7 |  01/04 |  Crafting a real-life story | 
  * How real-life stories are different from fictional ones
  * Journalism vs. “based on a true story”
  * Writing practice (demand writing)
|  8, 9 |  Please bring something to write with – either pencil and paper or a laptop.  
8 |  08/04 |  Formatting and New Media | 
  * Learning basic video editing
  * Presenting journalistic topics in short form and long form
  * Reviewing and evaluating short documentaries
|  N/A |  N/A  
9 |  15/04 |  Immersive Storytelling | 
  * Initial workshop from expert “game master” with over 20+ years’ experience of D&D
  * Learning about ARG’s and LARPing
  * Integrating technology into immersive storytelling experiences
|  13 |  N/A  
10 |  22/04 |  Midterm Presentations |  We will look at all the photojournalism projects as a class and have the opportunity to ask questions and receive feedback. |  N/A |  Be sure to bring multiple copies of your project, on a USB and in the cloud!  
11 |  29/04 |  The Power of Stories |  This will be a class discussion in which we discuss how stories, both fictional and real, can dramatically impact individual lives and society at large. |  N/A |  Please come ready with your favourite fictional and non-fiction stories to discuss!  
12 |  06/05 |  Guest Speaker – Prof. Dr. Alfred Hermida (I) |  The business of digital journalism: Funding models, audiences and sustainability |  10, 11 |  N/A  
13 |  13/05 |  Guest Speaker – Prof. Dr. Alfred Hermida (II) |  Media innovation: Approaches to innovation in digital journalism |  N/A |  Second written assignment due by 11:59pm  
14 |  20/05 |  Guest Speaker – Prof. Dr. Alfred Hermida (III) |  Sharing of news: Evolving audience engagement with news on social media |  N/A |  N/A  
15 |  27/05 |  Visit – National Palace Museum |  We will be going to the National Palace Museum, one of the largest in Taiwan, to experience their virtual and augmented reality exhibits and see the integration of new media to bring history to life. |  12 |  Transportation to be arranged individually.  
16 |  03/06 |  Creating Short-Form Content |  This class will consist of an in-class activity in which students will create short-form journalistic content in pairs which we will watch in class and give feedback to one another. |  N/A |  Make sure to bring something to record with, such as a phone or tablet!  
17 |  10/06 |  Flexible Learning Week – Work on your final project!  
18 |  17/06 |  Final Presentations |  We will watch all the final content pieces and have the opportunity to ask questions and receive feedback. |  Final audiovisual project due |  Be sure to bring multiple copies of your project, cloud and physical!  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.