國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：虛擬實境與數位科技
#####  Course Name: Virtual Reality and Digital Technology
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZM1949001 Course No.ZM1949001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：全創碩一、全創碩二 Course Department:Global Communication and Innovation Technology/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：林日璇 Instructor: LIN JIH HSUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一D56 Session: mon13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
The seminar in Virtual Reality and Digital Technology will focus on understanding the latest trends in immersive technology, development of virtual reality, and digital game culture in the global perspective, and understand the development of theories and research trends/topics in the literature. As World Economic Forum and OECD listed immersive technology as key technology development, it is important to understand how immersive technology is applied with AI for today’s media and business growth. In addition, students will learn various important digital technology trends internationally with a native focus. Students will examine VR phenomena and their effects on human well-being, cognition, and emotions. Furthermore, we will look at how different areas employ VR and digital games as a persuasive and educational tool and identity experiment.   
---  
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 媒介實作能力 Media Practice
  * B. 資訊處理能力 Information Processing
  * C. 跨文化傳播能力 Cross-Cultural Communication 
  * D. 敘事能力 Narrative
  * E. 媒介素養 Media Literary
  * F. 創新能力 Innovation
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The goals of the course are threefold: First, understand the key affordances of various immersive technology, including virtual reality, mixed reality, and augmented reality. In addition, how to employ these affordances for media content design and creation is key in this class. Second, how does immersive technology interact with AI to form key developments and media creation is also emphasized in this class. 
Lastly, be familiar with related research published in “flagship” journals including Journal of Communication, Communication Research, Human Communication Research. Mainstream journals dedicated digital games including Media Psychology, Journal of Computer Mediated Communication, New Media and Society, Cyberpsychology, Behavior, and Social Networking, and Computers in Human Behavior. Furthermore, be able to critically analyze and interpret how scholars in these fields frame research issues and investigate the effects of these two media on human being. In addition, be able to build logical and precise argument to contribute to advance the knowledge of these two fields, theoretically and empirically. All students should be able to propose a clear-designed, well-argued application analysis/research proposal at the end of the semester. For undergraduate students, the term project will be an analysis of a certain immersive application and phenomenon. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
# Seminar Schedule
Week |  Date |  Required Readings  
---|---|---  
1 |  2/17 |  Introduction to class ： (Dr. JihHsuan Tammy Lin林日璇) Communication Technology as a field in communication
  1. Introduction of recent communication technology
  2. Cases of communication technology
  3. Web 3 and NFT
2 |  2/24 |  Introduction to Virtual Reality (Taught by JihHsaun Tammy Lin林日璇) 
  1. Basic concept (Slater) 
Slater, M. (2009). Place illusion and plausibility can lead to realistic behaviour in immersive virtual environments.  _Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences_ ,  _364_(1535), 3549-3557.
  1. Current trends and analysis of Metaverse
  2. Experience VR
3 |  3/3 |  Virtual reality and industry application Demonstration SOCIAL VR experience:  WorkRoom Horizon RecRoom VRChat News  Course practice: Can you think of any cases about using VR for applications? (Everyone searches for different areas of application)  Every group presenting   
4 |  3/10 |  AI x immersive technology *AI Glasses experiences *AI x VR *AR glasses Design news stories and communication content through these new convergence  Group 1 presenting AI x glasses cases  
5 |  3/17 |  Interactivity as demand(by Dr. Nick Bowman包尼克, Online Session 1), and the dimensions of demand in the metaverse 
  1. Bowman, N. D. (2021). Interactivity as demand: Implications for interactive media entertainment. In C. Klimmt & P. Vorderer (Eds.), _Oxford handbook of media entertainment_. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.
  2. Bowman, N. D., Lin, J-S, & Wu, C. (2021). A Chinese-Language Validation of the Video Game Demand Scale (VGDS-C). _Proceedings of ACM Computers in Human Interaction_. https://doi.org/10.1145/3411764.3445348
Watch Video labelled “05 31824 Interactivity as Demand” (also see accompanying slides)  
6 |  3/24 | 
  1. Session 2 Nick Bowman包尼克
  2. PAR and PAX – Player avatar relationship 
  3. Banks, J. (2015). Object, Me, Symbiote, Other: A social typology of player-avatar relationships. _First Monday_. https://firstmonday.org/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/5433/4208
  4. Banks, J. Bowman, N. D., Lin, J-H, Pietschmann, D., & Wasserman, J. (2019). The Common Player-Avatar Interaction Scale (cPAX): Expansion and cross-language validation. _International Journal of Human-Computer Studies._https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhcs.2019.03.003
  5. Bowman, N. D., & Banks, J. (2024). The [Object, Me, Symbiote, Other] in the Machine: Insights from video game psychology for teleoperator-robot relations. _Proceedings of Hawaiian International Conference on System Sciences 57._https://hdl.handle.net/10125/106449
Watch video labelled “06 32524 PAR and PAX”(also see accompanying slides)  
7 |  3/31 |  VR Exercise and marketing. Feature related projects and research regarding using VR for exercise and marketing) By Dr. Jih-Hsuan Tammy Lin 林日璇
  * Lin, J-H. T., Wu, D-Y., & Bowman, N. D. (2022). Beat Saber as virtual reality exercising in 360 degrees: A moderated mediation model of playable angles on physiological and psychological outcomes. _Media Psychology._ https://doi.org/10.1080/15213269.2022.2154806
  * Wu. D., Lin, J-H. T., & Bowman, N. D. (2022). Watching VR advertising together: How 3D animated agents influence audience responses and enjoyment to VR advertising. _Computers in Human Behavior_. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2022.107255
Group 2 presents new literature and new VR exercise marketing   
8 |  4/7 |  Presence and sense of place (how players feel “wrapped up” and connected to digital spaces) (Dr. Nick Bowman包尼克, online session 3)
  1. Bowman, N. D., Banks, J., & Rittenour, C. (2020). Country Roads through 1s and 0s: Sense of place for and recognition of West Virginia following long-term engagement with Fallout 76. _Technology, Mind, & Behavior, 1_(1). https://doi.org/10.1037/tmb0000001
  2. Lombard, M. & Ditton, T. (1997). At the heart of it all: The concept of presence. _Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 3_(2). https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1083-6101.1997.tb00072.x
  3. Rauschnabel, P. A., Felix, R., Hinsch, C., Shahab, H., & Alt, F., (2022). What is XR? Towards a framework for augmented and virtual reality. _Computers in Human Behavior, 133_. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2022.107289
Watch video labelled “8 4824 Presence and Sense of Place” (also see accompanying slides) Immersive journalism research  
9 |  4/14 |  VR and Metaverse for social good/ Proteus effect
  1. Ahn, S. J. G., Bostick, J., Ogle, E., Nowak, K. L., McGillicuddy, K. T., & Bailenson, J. N. (2016). Experiencing nature: Embodying animals in immersive virtual environments increases inclusion of nature in self and involvement with nature.  _Journal of Computer_ _‐_ _Mediated Communication_ ,  _21_(6), 399-419.
Ahn, S. J., Hahm, J. M., & Johnsen, K. (2018). Feeling the weight of calories: using haptic feedback as virtual exemplars to promote risk perception among young females on unhealthy snack choices. Media Psychology, 1-27. 建成國中VR case for 灣生 (By Dr. Tammy JihHsuan Lin) Group 3 present: using VR for social good  
10 |  4/21 |  Progressive embodiment and natural mapping (a discussion of video game controllers and interfaces, and how players understand and engage them) (By Dr. Nick Bowman包尼克, online session 4)
  1. Biocca, F. (1997). The cyborg’s dilemma: Progressive embodiment in virtual environments. _Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 3_(2). https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1083-6101.1997.tb00070.x
  2. Won, A. S., Bailenson, J., Lee, J. & Lanier, J. (2015). Homuncular flexibility in virtual environments. _Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 20_(3). https://doi.org/10.1111/jcc4.12107
Watch video labelled “10 42224 Natural Mapping” (also see accompanying slides)  
11 |  4/28 |  Counseling with Tammy regarding the final project. IT’s time to work on your term project. 😊  
12 |  5/5 |  Moral panics (a historical account of widespread social fears around interactive media and their effects) (By Dr. Nick Bowman 包尼克, online session 5)
  * Bowman, N. D. (2016). The rise (and refinement) of moral panic. In R. Kowert and T. Quandt (Eds.), The video game debate: Unraveling the physical, social, and psychological effects of digital games (pp. 22-38). Routledge.
  * Dibbell, J. (1993). A rape in cyberspace. _Village Voice._http://www.juliandibbell.com/articles/a-rape-in-cyberspace/
  * Hackl, C. (2020, December 219). A day in the Metaverse. _Medium_. https://medium.com/@CathyHackl/a-day-in-the-metaverse-4b1e8facc995
Watch video labelled “12 50624 Moral Panic” (also see accompanying slides)  
13 |  5/12 |  Immersive technology in journalism and new trends 
  1. De la Peña, N., Weil, P., Llobera, J., Giannopoulos, E., Pomés, A., Spanlang, B., ... & Slater, M. (2010). Immersive journalism: immersive virtual reality for the first-person experience of news.  _Presence: Teleoperators and Virtual Environments_ ,  _19_(4), 291-301.
  2. Sundar, S. S., Kang, J., & Oprean, D. (2017). Being there in the midst of the story: How immersive journalism affects our perceptions and cognitions.  _Cyberpsychology, Behavior, and Social Networking_ ,  _20_(11), 672-682.
Group 4 presenting VR journalism   
14 |  5/19 | 
  * Augmented reality x AI for marketing and communication
Field trip to Speed 3D   
15 |  5/26 |  Transformative Digital Narratives/Disorienting Dilemma; By Dr. Nick Bowman, online session 6 )
  * Bowman, N. D., Ahn, S-J., & Kollar, L. (2020). The paradox of interactive media: The potential for video games and virtual reality as tools for violence prevention. _Frontiers in Communication_. http://doi.org/10.3389/fcomm.2020.580965
  * Daneels. R.,. Bowman, N. D., Possler, D., & Mekler, E. (2021). The ‘eudaimonic experience’: A scoping review of the concept in digital games research _. Media & Communication, 9_(2). https://doi.org/10.17645/mac.v9i2.3824
Watch video labelled “15 52724 Disorienting Dilemmas” (also see accompanying slides)  
16 |  6/2 |  Final project presentation (in person class) Groups/individuals presentation (You can submit your term paper starting this week)  
17 |  6/9 |  Flexible week  
18 |  6/16 |  Flexible week *Final project submission deadline  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.