國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：新媒體實務
#####  Course Name: New Media Practicum
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZM1900001 Course No.ZM1900001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：全創碩一、全創碩二 Course Department:Global Communication and Innovation Technology/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：林翠絹 Instructor: LIN TSUI-CHUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五567 Session: fri14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
This is an intensely practical course aimed at providing participants with the skills and knowledge they need to produce a 10-20 minute news programme. Specific subjects covered will be script style and production, studio setup, performance technique including use of a prompter, plus stand-upper style both on-script and off-script.
It is a mix of both classroom and studio sessions but most sessions will move between the two. Script writing and video editing will be in the classroom with all the other sessions in the studio. There will be on-camera training so smart-casual attire will be required at all times. Shooting and video editing skills to a good standard are a requirement for this course, although tricks-of-the-trade in these areas will be included. Students will have access to GCIT’s basic camera equipment, as well as video editing software, including Premiere.
Techniques for the production of news packages for both hard and soft news, single and double camera interviews, studio interviews, remote interviews and vox pops will also be covered. 
There will be a workshop by Forevertek on virtual and electronic production techniques.
Given the advanced designation of this course, students should have experiences of news writing. 
Participants will be required to have excellent written and spoken English skills. The entire course, along with all materials and exercises, will be in English.
Students will be expected to have access to a laptop computer and access to the internet to complete in-class exercises and email them in real time for wider review and discussion. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 媒介實作能力 Media Practice
  * B. 資訊處理能力 Information Processing
  * C. 媒介素養 Media Literary
  * D. 創新能力 Innovation
  * E. 敘事能力 Narrative
  * F. 跨文化傳播能力 Cross-Cultural Communication 
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
1. To understand the format and produce a TV news show using all the usual
elements.
2. To analyze a variety of issues and understand what is necessary to produce a 20
minute news show with a properly news edited rundown with on-camera, off-camera performances, studio and remote interviews, external packages and backgrounders.
3. To have students confident as to what to expect should they step into a television
newsroom and be able to undertake most of the elements they will find.
For all elements of this series of workshops, avoid plagiarism which will violate the university policy concerning academic ethics. Any assignment found to be plagiarizing work will be marked zero. A range of penalties will also be applied to serious or repeated cases of plagiarism by the university, including terminating your enrollment in this course.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 2 週 Week 2 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
No. of week |  Date |  Topic |  Content |  Instructor  
---|---|---|---|---  
1.  |  2/21 |  Course introduction  |  Classroom: Introduction to course schedule Classroom: Production of a 200 word script in the form of a personal introduction (CV) Studio: On-camera audition of the above script. |  Phil Smith  
2. |  2/28 |  和平紀念日228 Memorial Day (Holiday)  
3.  |  3/7 |  New Media Practicum (Television Broadcast) |  Basics and Studio hardware. Introduction to scriptwriting. |  Phil Smith  
4.  |  3/14 |  New Media Practicum (Television Broadcast) |  Classroom: Script writing/editing for broadcast.  |  Phil Smith  
5.  |  3/21 |  New Media Practicum (Television Broadcast) |  Studio: Intensive on-camera training. |  Phil Smith  
6.  |  3/28 |  New Media Practicum (Television Broadcast) |  Studio: Virtual Production by Forevertek |  Forevertek  
7. |  4/4 |  兒童節補假/兒童節、民族掃墓節Deferred holiday /Children’s Day and Tomb Sweeping Festival  
8.  |  4/11 |  New Media Practicum (Television Broadcast) |  Classroom/Studio: Show rundowns and show building.  |  Phil Smith  
9.  |  4/18 |  New Media Practicum (Television Broadcast) |  Classroom/Studio: Show rundowns and show building.  |  Phil Smith  
10.  |  4/25 |  New Media Practicum (Television Broadcast) |  Studio: Time for each student to present, record and edit a 5-10 minute news show. |  Phil Smith  
11.  |  5/2 |  New Media Practicum (Television Broadcast) |  Classroom/Studio: Finalising the rundowns of the 10-20 minute news show students will be delivering as a finished product on week 16. |  Phil Smith  
12.  |  5/9 |  New Media Practicum (Television Broadcast) |  Studio: Remote and Studio interview practice. Time to allow both offsite and onsite interviews to be booked with the guests.  |  Phil Smith  
13.  |  5/16 |  New Media Practicum (Television Broadcast) |  Offsite/Studio/Classroom: Session given over for students to go out and shoot material and interviews for the final newscast. Or use the studio or classroom. |  Phil Smith  
14.  |  5/23 |  New Media Practicum (Television Broadcast) |  Offsite/Studio/Classroom: Session given over for students to go out and shoot material and interviews for the final newscast. Or use the studio or classroom. |  Phil Smith  
15.  |  5/30 |  New Media Practicum (Television Broadcast) |  Classroom/Studio: Final editing, updating and possible re-shooting of elements. |  Phil Smith  
16.  |  6/7 |  New Media Practicum (Television Broadcast) |  Classroom: Looking at social media and how to promote the now nearly finished news show. |  Phil Smith  
17.  |  6/13 |  New Media Practicum (Television Broadcast) |  Classroom: Showtime! |  Phil Smith   
18.  |  6/20 |  No class; Flexible instruction |  --  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.