國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：新媒體匯流
#####  Course Name: New Media Convergence
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZM1946001 Course No.ZM1946001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：全創碩一、全創碩二 Course Department:Global Communication and Innovation Technology/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：林翠絹 Instructor: LIN TSUI-CHUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四34C Session: thu10-13 
##  課程簡介Course Description
This graduate course will introduce students a range of fundamental issues about new media convergence by examining the impacts of ICT technologies. First, students will learn how to use analytical lenses and mixed-method approaches to investigate new media convergence phenomenon at individual, organizational, and industry levels. The socio-political, economic, and cultural issues involved in media transformation and diffusion of emerging technologies will be examined. Next, this course will investigate how emerging technologies (e.g., multiscreen social TV, social (ro)bots and generative AI) shape media and communication industries and audiences/users. In addition to convergence and innovations, technology-enabled opportunities and risks are key concepts to be covered in this course. We will discuss concerning technological impacts (e.g., media addiction, fake news, disinformation and deepfakes). Through video conferencing and online teaching, the instructor will invite experts from University of Washington and Nanyang Technological University to co-teach and share new media insights and experiences. In the end of semester, students will complete a rigorous research article regarding new media convergence with empirical data.
* This course will incorporate online teaching with Prof. Ekin Yasin (Director, Master Program in Communication Leadership, University of Washington) and. Professor Edson Tandoc (Associate Chair, Wee Kim Wee School of Communication, Nanyang Technological University)
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 資訊處理能力 Information Processing
  * B. 跨文化傳播能力 Cross-Cultural Communication 
  * C. 敘事能力 Narrative
  * D. 媒介實作能力 Media Practice
  * E. 媒介素養 Media Literary
  * F. 創新能力 Innovation
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
OBJECTIVES
Media industries and society are transforming by the forces of emerging and convergent technologies. This course is essential for students to get familiar with emerging technologies and learn how to conduct new media research and address practical issues in media innovations, transformation, and risk aspects. Specifically,
  * Students will become aware of latest media technological trends and get familiar with innovations that have potential impacts on society, industries and audiences and bring opportunities, transformation and risks;
  * Students will understand how new media and convergence are shaped by social, political/legal, economic/market and cultural driving forces;
  * Students will learn how to apply analytical lenses to conduct research about convergent new media phenomenon.
LEARNING OUTCOMES
To keep abreast of rapid technological changes, the instructor selects emerging media cases for teaching and class discussions. Guest lecturers with domain knowledge expertise will share insights about latest developments and impacts of new media convergence. Students will expose to emerging media phenomenon in various contexts, including United States, Singapore, and Taiwan. To enhance international perspectives and provide refreshing inputs, students are encouraged to share local new media cases during discussions and topical presentations, which co-construct the vibrant learning dynamics and enriched experiences. With respect to the final project, students will be trained to conduct empirical research regarding new media convergence in various contexts. During the research process, students will obtain solid research skills and research collaborative experiences. Additionally, they will learn the different developmental trajectories of emerging technologies and their impacts in various countries. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
|  Date | 
### _Topic/Event_
| 
### _Readings_
| 
### _Special Notes Deadlines_  
---|---|---|---  
Week 1 2/20 |  Introduction & course overview  Dr. Trisha Lin |  Article: Grant, A. & Meadows Ch1&3 (ICT) Miller (2011) Ch3 Nightingale & Dwyer Ch2 | 
# Homework:
Disruptive innovation   
Week 2 2/27 |  Understand new media, convergence & disruptive innovation  Dr. Trisha Lin |  _Video_ Disruptive innovation |   
Week 3 3/6 |  New media research & mixed-method approaches  Dr. Trisha Lin (Invited talk: Social media health campaign: A mixed-method approach: Dr. Shaohai Jiang, Assistant prof, National University of Singapore)  |  Jiang’s papers | 
# Discuss disruptive innovation  
Week 4 3/13 |  Mobile convergence: Smartphone & screen dependency  Dr. Trisha Lin |  Lin’s smartphone papers (2016, 2020, 2022) | 
# Divide research groups
Introduce final projects  
Week 5 3/20 |  Multiscreen social TV as new convergence & screen dependency Dr. Trisha Lin |  _Article:_ Lin’s multiscreen social TV papers (2013, 2019)  Lin (2023) Lin, Lee & Bautista (2022) |  Topical presentation 1 (10-mins/group)  
Week 6 3/27 |  Socialbots, deepfakes & genAI Dr. Trisha Lin |  | 
# Topical presentation 2
# (10-mins/group)  
Week 7 4/03 |  _Spring Break Public holiday_ |  |   
Week 8 4/10 |  Research proposal presentation  Dr. Trisha Lin |  To be decided | 
# Assignment  
Week 9 4/17 |  Social media & organizational transformation  Dr. Ekin Yasin | 
# PPT presentations & Q&A
|   
Week 10 4/24 |  Emerging technologies & global communication Dr. Ekin Yasin |  To be decided |   
Week 11 5/1 |  Generative AI & essential communication skills Dr. Ekin Yasin |  To be decided |   
Week 12 5/8 |  Changing news practices: GenAI impacts  Dr. Edson Tandoc |  To be decided |   
Week 13 5/15 |  Moving into social media spaces: From real news to fake news Dr. Edson Tandoc |  To be decided |   
Week 14 5/22 |  Fighting fake news: The need for a new news media literacy Dr. Edson Tandoc |  To be decided |   
Week 15 5/29 |  AI & data governance Dr. Natalie Pang (HOD, Assoc Prof. New Media & Communication, NUS) |  To be decided |   
Week 16 6/5 |  Final presentations & Feedback Dr. Trisha Lin |  |  15 min presentations & 5 mins Q&A  
Week 17 6/12 |  Flexible week—writing paper |  No class |   
Week 18 6/19 |  Flexible week- final paper submission  |  | 
# Submit written papers to Moodle (before 5pm)  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.