國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：專題二：移民與全球化
#####  Course Name: Specialized Course II (ASSD): Migration and Globalization
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1020001 Course No.ZU1020001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學三、創國學四 Course Department:Global Studies/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：歐子綺 Instructor: OU TZU-CHI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五D56 Session: fri13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
Why and how does migration and mobility become a global issue? What are the struggles that migrants in different societies face? How do migrants cope with these difficulties? This is a specialized course on migration and globalization. Students will explore the phenomena and theories of migration and mobility through ethnographies of international migration in Asia, Europe, and the Americas. Course topics include international labor migration, citizenship, borders and boundaries, migrant placemaking, race and ethnicity, gender, marriage and family, and more.
This semester, we will focus on migrant food culture through a series of lectures and workshops. By engaging with theories, embodied experiences, and hands-on practices, students will gain a deeper understanding of migrants' lived experiences, challenges, and creativity. Beyond theoretical discussions, this course also emphasizes social practice. It is integrated with the “Inclusive Innovation” University Social Responsibility (USR) project , inviting new immigrants, migrant workers, and NGO practitioners to share their experiences in class. Students enrolled in the course will visit immigrant communities in Taiwan, engage with local issues through social practice, and curate a final exhibition to advocate for migrants’ struggles and explore their strategies for integration into host societies.
遷移與流動為何及如何成為全球議題？各類移民身處不同社會，他們所面對的困難有何差異？移民如何發展出因應的策略？這是一門關於移民與全球化的專題課程，修課學生將透過亞洲、歐洲、美洲等地國際遷移的民族誌，了解遷移與流動的現象與理論。課程主題包括：國際勞動力遷移、空間政治、公民身分、國界與邊界、移民空間創造、種族與族群、性別、婚姻與家庭等。
本次課程將以移民與飲食文化 為核心，設計一連串講授課程以及工作坊。學生將透過學習理論、融入身體感以及參與實作，深入了解移民的生活經驗、困難與創意。「移民與全球化」課程除了講述移民相關的知識和理論，也著重於社會實踐。課程進行與「創新國際連結Inclusive Innovation」大學社會責任實踐（USR Hub）種子培育計畫結合，邀請新移民、移工、移工組織工作者至課堂上分享。修課學生將透過策劃期末展覽，了解並倡議移民的困境與融入移民社會的策略。
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  1. Analyze key theories and concepts related to migration and mobility, including their socio-political and cultural dimensions.
  2. Develop skills in reflexive ethnography to critically engage with and represent diverse migration experiences.
  3. Cultivate proficiency in presenting migration-related knowledge through various media formats.
  4. Foster a commitment to social responsibility and equip students to contribute positively to global and local communities.
  * 分析與移民、遷移、流動議題相關的核心理論和概念，包括其社會、政治與文化層面。
  * 培養反思性及民族誌技能，批判性地學習並呈現多元的移民經驗。
  * 提升透過多元媒介與形式呈現移民相關知識的能力。
  * 培養對社會責任的意識及行動，鼓勵學生積極為全球與在地社群帶來正面影響。
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week |  Date |  Topics |  Assignment  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Feb 21 |  Introduction - Migration and Food |   
2 |  Feb 28 |  _Memorial Day和平紀念日. No Class._ |   
3 |  Mar 7 |  Five-senses workshop - guest lecture |   
4 |  Mar 14 |  Labor Migration  |   
5 |  Mar 21 |  Gendered Migration |   
6 |  Mar 28 |  How to interview migrants |   
7 |  Apr 4 |  _Holiday. No Class._ |   
8 |  Apr 11 |  Writing food workshop - guest lecture |  _interview report_  
9 |  Apr 17 |  Border/State and Racism - guest lecture |   
10 |  Apr 25 |  Migrant Motherhood - Film screening |  _project proposal_  
11 |  May 2 |  Migrant Placemaking |   
12 |  May 9 |  Fieldtrip |   
13 |  May 16 |  Migrant Materiality |   
14 |  May 23 |  Media and identity + Exhibition Rehearsal |  _rehearsal_  
15 |  May 30 |  _Holiday (No Class)_ |   
16 |  June 6 |  Public Exhibition |  _presentation_  
17 |  June 13 |  _Wrap up (No Class)_ |   
2/21 Week 1: Introduction - Migration and Food: Your Story
  * Stalker, Peter. 2008. Chapter 1&2, No-Nonsense Guide to International Migration. 2nd ed. No-Nonsense Guides. Oxford: New Internationalist.
  * Clarissa Wei, 2023. Made in Taiwan: Recipes and Stories from the Island Nation.
Supplementary reading:
  * Yang, Dominic Meng-Hsuan._The great exodus from China: Trauma, memory, and identity in modern Taiwan._ Cambridge University Press, 2020.
  * Pérez, Elizabeth. "Religion in the kitchen: Cooking, talking, and the making of Black Atlantic traditions." In _Religion in the Kitchen_. New York University Press, 2016.
[Migration & food assignment] 
2/28 Week 2: Memorial Day. No Class.
3/7 Week 3: Five-Senses and Gardening Workshop
Guest Lecturer: Ms. Dinh Thi Thu 丁氏秋老師
3/14 Week 4: Labor Migration
  * Silvey, Rachel, and Rhacel Parreñas. 2020. “Precarity Chains: Cycles of Domestic Worker Migration from Southeast Asia to the Middle East.” _Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies_ 46 (16): 3457–71. https://doi.org/10.1080/1369183X.2019.1592398.
Supplementary readings:
  * Film: _Goodbye, Lovable Strangers_
  * Stalker, Peter. 2008. Chapter 3, No-Nonsense Guide to International Migration. 2nd ed. No-Nonsense Guides. Oxford: New Internationalist.
  * Tseng, Yen-fen, and Hong-zen Wang. 2013. “Governing Migrant Workers at a Distance: Managing the Temporary Status of Guestworkers in Taiwan.” International Migration 51 (4): 1–19.
[Board game: Migrant Workers’ Life] 
3/21 Week 5: Gendered Migration
  * Lan, Pei-Chia. "From reproductive assimilation to neoliberal multiculturalism: Framing and regulating immigrant mothers and children in Taiwan." _Journal of Intercultural Studies_ 40, no. 3 (2019): 318-333.
Supplementary reading:
  * Bélanger, Danièle, and Hong-zen Wang. 2012. “Transnationalism from below: Evidence from Vietnam-Taiwan Cross-Border Marriages.” Asian and Pacific Migration Journal 21 (3): 291–316.
  * Wu, Kun-Lu, and I.-Chun Kung. 2016. “South Helps South; A Bridge between Oceans: The Role of Southeast Asian Migrant Workers and Marriage Immigrants in the New Southbound Policy.” Prospect Journal, no. 16: 105–23.
  * Friedman, Sara. Exceptional States: Chinese Immigrants and Taiwanese Sovereignty. Oakland, California: University of California Press, 2015.
3/28 Week 6: How to interview migrants
Guest Lecture on “Migrants, Diaspora, and the Korean Impeachment Protests in Japan”
Dodom Kim, Assistant Professor of Anthropology
Faculty of Liberal Arts, Sophia University
  * Fouratt, Caitlin E. “Telling Migration Stories: Course Connections and Building Classroom Community.” Teaching and Learning Anthropology 3, no. 1 (2020). https://doi.org/10.5070/T33146868.
  * Martínez, D. O. (2024). Capitalist inequality and power, migration, and urbanity: A biographical interview with Nina Glick Schiller. _American Anthropologist_.
Supplementary readings:
  * Guzmán, Jennifer R., Melanie A. Medeiros, and Gwendolyn Faulkner. “Teaching Im/Migration through an Ethnographic Portrait Project.” Teaching and Learning Anthropology 3, no. 1 (2020). https://doi.org/10.5070/T33146968.
  * Weiss, Robert Stuart. Learning from Strangers: The Art and Method of Qualitative Interview Studies. New York: Toronto: New York: Free Press; Maxwell Macmillan Canada; Maxwell Macmillan International, 1994.
4/4 Week 7: National Holiday. No class.
4/11 Week 8: Writing food workshop - guest lecture
Guest lecturers: Ms. Sally Sung
_https://notjustlovestories.collective.tw/index.php/en/co-writing_
[Writing food worksheet due in class]
_Assignment due: interview report_
4/17 Week 9: Border/State and Racism
Guest lecturer: _Ibby Han_ (Independent scholar, community organizer in Charlottesville, VA)
  * Andersson, Ruben. "Time and the migrant other: European border controls and the temporal economics of illegality." American Anthropologist 116, no. 4 (2014): 795-809.
  * Kivisto, Peter, and Thomas Faist. 2010. Chapter 7&8. Beyond a Border: The Causes and Consequences of Contemporary Immigration. Sociology for a New Century Series. Los Angeles: Pine Forge Press.
  * Lan, Pei-Chia. 2006. Chapter 4. Global Cinderellas: Migrant Domestics and Newly Rich Employers in Taiwan. Durham, N.C: Duke University Press.
Supplementary readings:
  * Cheng, Isabelle (2020). Imagining a Tragedy in Cyberspace: Online Postings after the Death of an Undocumented Migrant Worker. https://taiwaninsight.org/2020/12/15/imagining-a-tragedy-in-cyberspace-online-postings-after-the-death-of-an-undocumented-migrant-worker/
  * “A Guard’s story” and “The Military and Security Industry: Promoting Europe’s Refugee Regime” in Holmes, Seth. 2020. Asylum for Sale: Profit and Protest in the Migration Industry. Edited by Siobhán McGuirk and Adrienne Pine. None edition. Oakland: PM Press.
[Film: _And Miles to Go Before I Sleep]_
4/25 Week 10: Migrant Motherhood
Film screening: 《飛機飛過的時候》 _When the plane passes by_
  * Constable, Nicole. 2014.  _Born out of Place: Migrant Mothers and the Politics of International Labor_. Berkeley: University of California Press.
Supplementary readings:
  * Parreñas, Rhacel Salazar. 2001. “Mothering from a Distance: Emotions, Gender, and Intergenerational Relations in Filipino Transnational Families.”  _Feminist Studies_ 27 (2): 361–90.
  * Lan, Pei-Chia. 2006. Chapter 5. “Cinderella with a Mobile Phone” in Global Cinderellas: Migrant Domestics and Newly Rich Employers in Taiwan. Durham, N.C: Duke University Press.
_Assignment due: project proposal_
5/2 Week 11: Migrant Placemaking
  * Martin, Fran, John Nguyet Erni, and Audrey Yue. 2019. “(Im)Mobile Precarity in the Asia-Pacific.” _Cultural Studies_ 33 (6): 895–914. _https://doi.org/10.1080/09502386.2019.1660690_.
  * Ça ˘gla, Ay¸se, and Nina Glick Schiller. 2021. “Relational Multiscalar Analysis: A Comparative Approach to Migrants Within City-Making Processes.” Geographical Review. 111(2): 206–32
Supplementary reading:
  * Simsek-Caglar, Ayse, and Nina Glick Schiller. Introduction in _Migrants and City-Making: Dispossession, Displacement and Urban Regeneration_. Durham; London: Duke University Press, 2018.
5/9 Week 12: Fieldtrip
TBD
5/16 Week 13: Materiality
  * Leon, Jason De, and Michael Wells. 2015. The Land of Open Graves: Living and Dying on the Migrant Trail. First edition. Oakland, California: University of California Press.
  * _https://missingmigrants.iom.int/region/mediterranean_
Supplementary reading:
  * Holmes, Seth M., and Jorge Ramirez-Lopez. _Fresh Fruit, Broken Bodies: Migrant Farmworkers in the United States, Updated with a New Preface and Epilogue_. Vol. 27. Univ of California Press, 2023.
5/23 Week 14: Media and Identity + Exhibition Rehearsal
  * _Taiwan Literature Award for Migrants_
  * Appadurai, Arjun. 2019. “Traumatic Exit, Identity Narratives, and the Ethics of Hospitality.” Television & New Media 20 (6): 558–65.
  * Lan, Pei-Chia. 2006. Chapter five, “Cinderella with a Mobile Phone” in  _Global Cinderellas: Migrant Domestics and Newly Rich Employers in Taiwan_. Durham, N.C: Duke University Press.
Supplementary reading:
  * _Finding Home Project_ _https://time.com/finding-home/_
  * Cenedese, M. (2018). ‘Finding home: a multimodal narrative of Syrian refugees’ everyday life’, _entanglements_ , 1(2):89-96. https://entanglementsjournal.wordpress.com/finding-home-a-multimodal-narrative-of-syrian-refugees-everyday-life/
5/30 Week 15: Holiday. No Class.
6/6 Week 16: Exhibition
_https://nccu-immigrants-digital-marketing.weebly.com/exhibition.html_
6/13 Week 17: Wrap up [No class]
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.