國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：AI導論
#####  Course Name: Introduction to AI
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1017001 Course No.ZU1017001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學一 Course Department:Global Studies/B/1 
  * 授課老師：卞中佩 Instructor: Pien Chung-pei 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
In recent years, artificial intelligence (AI) has been classified as one of the most important transformational technologies to improve social life and address organizations' problems. AI's practical application is profoundly versatile and has the unique ability to offer convenience and efficiency. However, the proliferated application of AI has also raised some skepticism since the impacts of AI involve not only institutions that maintain societal operations, but also the way in which we confront social problems.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course will introduce diverse aspects concerning AI, and students will learn about AI’s advantages and limitations as well as strategies to drive AI. 
Course Prerequisites and Policies:
You should read all the required materials prior to attending the classes.
  1. At the conclusion of the first class, you should establish a team composed of 3-5 classmates. Each team should assign a member to email me a list, which should include the team members’ names, emails, and university IDs.
  2. Every class requires class feedback. I will email you the questions to acquire feedback in the evening after each class. Every student should submit his/her answers at the beginning of the next class.
  3. A round table week is scheduled at the end of every section, where every team should provide a presentation.
  4. In Week 12 (Round Table 2), each team should present a project proposal for the final presentation. 
  5. In the final presentation week, each team should present a research question, data sources, results, and a conclusion. The final reports should be submitted to my mailbox or emailed prior to the deadline.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week 1 (2/21): Introduction of the Course
Week 2 (2/28): 228 Peace Memorial Day
Week 3 (3/7): AI’s Development
Required Reading:
Agrawal, A., Gans, J. and Goldfarb, A., 2018. Prediction Machines: The Simple Economics of Artificial Intelligence. Harvard Business Press. Chapter 1 & 2
Week 4 (3/14): Data and Basic Deep Learning
Required Reading:
Krohn, J., Beyleveld, G. & Bassens, A,. 2019. Deep Learning Illustrated: A Visual, Interactive Guide to Artificial Intelligence. Addison-Wesley Professional; 1st edition. Chapter 5-7
Week 5 (3/21): Convolution Neural Network
Required Reading:
Krohn, J., Beyleveld, G. & Bassens, A,. 2019. Deep Learning Illustrated: A Visual, Interactive Guide to Artificial Intelligence. Addison-Wesley Professional; 1st edition. Chapter 10
Week 6 (3/28): Recurrent Neural Network (RNN)
Required Reading:
Leifer, L., Lewrick, M., & Link P. (2018). The Design Thinking Playbook. New York: Wiley. Chapter 11 : NETWORKS DESIGNED FOR SEQUENTIAL DATA
Week 7 (4/4): Spring Break
Week 8 (4/11): Round Table 1
Week 9 (4/18): RNN for Natural Language Processing
Required Reading:
Leifer, L., Lewrick, M., & Link P. (2018). The Design Thinking Playbook. New York: Wiley. Chapter 11-13
Week 10 (4/25): Transformer and BERT: The Game-changing NLP Models
Week 11 (5/2): Introduction AIGC and ChatGPT’s Application
Week 12 (5/9): Round Table 2: AI Project Proposal
Week 13 (5/16): Advanced AIGC and ChatGPT’s Application I
#### Week 14(5/23): Advanced AIGC and ChatGPT’s Application II
Week 15(5/30): Round Table 3
Week 16 (6/7): Final Presentation
Week 17 (6/14): Final Paper Workshop
Week 18 (6/21): Final Paper Writing
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.