國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：政治學
#####  Course Name: Political Science
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1039001 Course No.ZU1039001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學一 Course Department:Global Studies/B/1 
  * 授課老師：詳備註 Instructor: Ref. Note 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course will introduce students to the basic concepts and approaches used to study politics in a systematic way. The course will challenge students to think critically about the nature of the state, its various forms and institutions, and its relationship with economics, society and culture. Discussion of core concepts, theories and methodologies of two major sub-fields of political science—political theory and comparative politics—will provide students with the foundation for advanced courses. Through exploration of current political trends, such as the resurgence of authoritarianism globally, the course will encourage students to consider how politics will shape the future. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Objectives:
The key objectives of this course are helping students grasp the fundamental concepts, theories and methodologies of political science and encouraging students to think critically about political topics and to communicate their knowledge and opinions regarding political issues effectively.
Group Discussion:
The course will emphasize student participation in class discussion. Students will be divided into discussion groups. Each class will consist of a lecture, followed by group discussion of key questions. Discussion questions for the next week will be given to students at the end of each class so they can prepare ideas for group discussion as they do the assigned reading for that week. Following group discussion, a representative from each group (representatives will rotate) will make a brief summary of the key points and conclusions of their discussion. The instructor will record each group’s conclusions on the board and guide a final wrap-up discussion with the entire class. 
Group Paper:
Each discussion group will work together to write a paper of 5,000 words on a topic of their choice related to political theory or comparative politics. Groups should choose their topic before Week 8 and submit the topic to the instructor for approval. The paper should address a clear research question and cite at least 10 authoritative sources (books, academic journal articles, or authoritative magazines and newspapers) in APA 7th style. Each group will make a 20-minute presentation on their paper topic. Presentations will be scheduled during group discussion time beginning in Week 10. Papers are due on the last day of class in Week 18.
Exam Format: 
Mid-term and final exams will consist of short answer and essay questions.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and Homework  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  What is Politics? |  Class Syllabus |  Class Introduction  
2 |  Politics as a “Science” |  Heywood, Ch. 1 |  Discussion Groups Organized  
3 |  Political Ideologies |  Heywood, Ch. 2 |  Group Discussion  
4 |  The State |  Heywood, Ch. 3 |  Group Discussion  
5 |  Democracy |  Heywood, Ch. 4 |  Group Discussion  
6 |  Regimes |  Heywood, Ch. 5 |  Group Discussion  
7 |  Nations and Nationalism |  Heywood, Ch. 6 |  Group Discussion/ Group Paper Presentations Scheduled  
8 |  |  |  Mid-term Exam  
9 |  Law, Constitutions, and Federalism |  Garner, Ferdinand & Lawson, Ch. 8 |  Group Discussion  
10 |  Branches of Government and the Bureaucracy |  Heywood, Ch. 14, 15, 16 |  Group Discussion/ Group Paper Presentation (1)  
11 |  Representation, Elections, and Voting |  Heywood, Ch. 10 |  Group Discussion/ Group Paper Presentation (2)  
12 |  Political Parties, Interest Groups, and Movements |  Heywood, Ch. 11, 12 |  Group Discussion/ Group Paper Presentation (3)  
13 |  Political Economy and Globalization |  Heywood, Ch. 7 |  Group Discussion/ Group Paper Presentation (4)  
14 |  Politics, Society and Identity |  Heywood, Ch. 8 |  Group Discussion/ Group Paper Presentation (5)  
15 |  Political Culture and the Media |  Heywood, Ch. 9 |  Group Discussion/ Group Paper Presentation (6)  
16 |  |  |  Final Exam  
17 |  |  |   
18 |  |  |  Group Papers Due  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.