國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：專題一：人類世與地緣政治
#####  Course Name: Specialized Course I (GDG): Anthropocene and Geopolitics
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1033001 Course No.ZU1033001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學三、創國學四 Course Department:Global Studies/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：楊智元 Instructor: YANG CHIH-YUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
Since the 1970s, the social sciences have undergone an “environmental turn” as many scholars have attempted to adapt their theoretical and methodological tools to better respond to the growing environmental crisis. Environmental and political issues are important topics for social science and Science and Technology Studies (STS), not only because of the urgency of the environmental problems facing modern society but also because the social study of the environment has opened up a highly interconnected web of social, cultural, and political controversies involving competing professional knowledge, social organisation, notions of progress, modernity, and debates over freedom and justice within democracy. In addition, the focus of this course acknowledges a “planetary turn”. The advent of the Anthropocene means that the cumulative impact of the human species on the Earth system as a whole now exceeds the influence of key geological forces, making humans one of the major driving forces behind geological or geophysical change. The Earth has left the Holocene era and entered a new geological epoch, the characteristics of which are yet to be defined and explored in this course. This not only places the humanities and social sciences at the centre of understanding the Earth's fate but also challenges social scientists to imagine how large-scale environmental politics can be intertwined with art exhibitions.
This course explores several basic challenges that exist within the visions of a sustainable society and examines the claim of low-carbon transition from different perspectives, such as technological, institutional, and political-economic. Firstly, it will start with a review of the understanding of sustainability and ask what the underlying conceptualisation of Nature is in this encompassing term. What are the different and sometimes competing strategies to achieve sustainability? A historical relationship between Nature and Society follows, pointing out that nature is not an existing entity that is just over there. The concept of "Nature" is actively constructed by modern society through ideas such as conservation and natural history. Secondly, it explores the theme of environmental politics and governance, foregrounding the institutional and power effects of environmental issues such as the politics of Climate Change. Lastly, we are going to discuss the buzzing term, Anthropocene, the scientific controversy, and the social and cultural implications it brings to contemporary social studies on planetary Earth. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  * Understanding the different versions of sustainability and seeing how existent political economy structure comes into play in environmental politics.
  * Understanding the historical-cultural construction of Nature, climate change and the relevant policies, with particular emphasis on technoscience.
  * Examining the social sciences' role in understanding environmental politics and conflicts on a global scale and exploring the emerging idea of Anthropocene.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
Week-by-week Syllabus and Readings 2/19 Week 1  Course Orientation  
---  
2/26 Week 2  Nature and Society Required reading: Hinchliffe, S. (2008) “Reconstituting Nature Conservation: Towards a Careful Political Ecology” _Geoforum_ 39: 88-97  
3/5 Week 3 Nature Reconstructed: Sustainabilit(ies) Required reading: Kierstin C. Hatt, Debra J. Davidson, and Ineke Lock (2005) Power and Sustainability., in Davidson, Debra J; Hatt, Kierstin C (eds.) Consuming Sustainability: Critical Social Analyses of Ecological Change. 2005, p8-19. Ana João Gaspar de Sousa & Elisabeth Kastenholz (2015) Wind farms and the rural tourism experience – problem or possible productive integration? The views of visitors and residents of a Portuguese village, Journal of Sustainable Tourism, 23(2015), 1236-1256 (only the paragraphs before methodology)  
3/12 Week 4 Grassroots Innovation or Market Required reading: Gill Seyfang & Adrian Smith (2007) Grassroots innovations for sustainable development: Towards a new research and policy agenda, Environmental Politics, 16:4, 584-603 Edith Chezel and Olivier Labussière (2018) Energy landscape as a polity. Wind power practices in Northern Friesland, Landscape Research, 43(4), 503-516. (only the paragraphs before section 3)  
3/19 Week 5 Following Actors: Your Issue and Case Study Workshop Based on STS’s Actor-Network-Theory (ANT),  we are going to draw an environmental controversy map locating and documenting the more-than-human actors and knowledge claims Winds of Change - Offshore Wind in the North Sea  
3/26 Week 6 Documentary: Rewilding, restoring and reconnecting with nature in Derbyshire  
4/2 Week 7 Holiday  
4/9 Week 8 Globalised Environmental Knowledge Required reading: Mike Hulme (2020) Climate change forever: the future of an idea, Scottish Geographical Journal, 136:1-4, 118-122 , DOI: 10.1080/14702541.2020.1853872 Clark A. Miller. (2004) Climate Science and the Making of a Global Political Order. In Sheila Jasanoff edited States of Knowledge, The Co-Production of Science and the Social Order. New York: Routledge  
4/16 Week 9 Mid-term Week (Catching up week)  
4/23 Week 10 Environmental Governance and Politics Required reading: Dunlop, C. A. (2012). Epistemic communities. In E. Araral, S. Fritzen, M. Howlett, M. Ramesh, & X. Wu (Eds.), Routledge Handbook of Public Policy (pp. 247–261). Routledge. https://doi.org/10.4324/9780203097571-28 Lo, A. Y., & Chen, K. (2019). Policy selection of knowledge: The changing network of experts in the development of an emission trading scheme. Geoforum, 106, 1–12. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.geoforum.2019.07.021  
4/30 Week 11 Environmental Justice and Pluralism Required reading: Schlosberg, D. (2013). Theorising environmental justice: The expanding sphere of a discourse. Environmental Politics, 22(1), 37–55. https://doi.org/10.1080/09644016.2013.755387 Brush, E. (2020). Inconvenient truths: pluralism, pragmatism, and the need for civil disagreement. Journal of Environmental Studies and Sciences, 10(2), 160-168. https://doi.org/10.1007/s13412-020-00589-7  
5/7 Week 12 Citizen Science and Participatory Knowledge Required reading: Irwin A (2015) ‘Citizen science and scientific citizenship: same words, different meanings?’ in _Science Communication Today – 2015_(Bernard Schiele, Joëlle Le Marec and Patrick Baranger eds) Éditions Universitaires de Lorraine: Nancy pp 29-38. Fan, Fa‐ti, and Shun-ling Chen. 2019. "Citizen, Science, and Citizen Science." East Asian Science, Technology and Society: An International Journal 13, no. 181-193.  
5/14 Week 13 Resilience and Nature-based Solutions Required reading: Lockie, S. (2016). Beyond resilience and systems theory: reclaiming justice in sustainability discourse. In Environmental Sociology (Vol. 2, Issue 2, pp. 115–117). Routledge. https://doi.org/10.1080/23251042.2016.1182308 Mabon, L and Kawabe, M (2017) ‘Making sense of post-disaster Fukushima fisheries: a scalar approach‘ Environmental Science and Policy 75: 173-183  
5/21 Week 14 University Anniversary Sports Day  
5/28 Week 15 Documentary: Anthropocene - The Human Epoch  
6/ 4 Week 16 Welcome to the Anthropocene Required reading: Castree, Noel (2014) ‘The Anthropocene and geography I: the back story,’ Geography Compass, 8(7), pp. 436-49.  Davies, Jeremy. 2016. "Versions of the Anthropocene." In the Birth of the Anthropocene. Oakland: University of California Press.  
6/11 Week 17 Self-Learning Week  
6/18 Week 18 Self-Learning Week  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.