國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際公法
#####  Course Name: Public International Law
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1005011 Course No.ZU1005011
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學二、創國學三、創國學四 Course Department:Global Studies/B/2&3&4 
  * 授課老師：張佳康 Instructor: KEVIN CHIA-KANG CHANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五678 Session: fri15-18
##  課程簡介Course Description
Public international law (PIL) is concerned with the principles and rules that govern relations between States and their interactions with other international actors, and has served as a foundation of the global rules-based order since WWII. PIL is a dynamic combination of law and politics, and is a vital legal, political and ideological tool through which global actors address the most important issues facing the world. This course aims to present a panorama of public international law, giving students a general understanding of the rules governing international relations, and providing students with practical skills in applying their legal knowledge to global issues.
The course will start with an introduction to the international legal order, including an illustration of the specificities of international law as compared to domestic laws. It will then focus on core areas of public international law which involve the following questions: Who are the actors in the international legal system and to whom does international law apply? What is the significance of ‘statehood’ under international law and how is it defined? How is international law created and where can it be found? What are the fundamental principles governing international peace and security? Finally, in case of breaches of international rules, how does international law react to such breaches? 
Students will learn about how international law is capable, or limited, in addressing key global challenges, for example: the use of force and rules governing armed conflicts, the protection of human rights, accountability for mass atrocities and war crimes, terrorism, climate change and protection of the environment, and other frontiers. The role of international organisations, such as that of the United Nations, will be closely analysed. The course will adopt a practical, rather than theoretical focus, so that students learn to understand and apply international law on global issues through research, advocacy and policy-making.
This course will be taught via a hybrid mode of teaching of 50% being in-person, the other 50% online. Students are expected to read the prescribed reading material in advance, submit reflection notes, and participate in class discussions. This course is delivered with an assumption that students will already have a solid appreciation of international politics. Due to the nature of legal concepts and lexicon, this course is suitable only for students who have an advanced level of English proficiency. Because of the class size limit of 25 students, prospective students may be required to submit a letter of motivation prior to their enrolment being confirmed.
The course will be taught by Associate Professor Kevin Chang (JD, LLM, MA, GradDipIntLaw, GradDipLegPrac, BSc), who is a senior advisor on international law and who brings more than 20 years’ experience as a lawyer, advocate and practitioner with the United Nations, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the Australian Government and other organisations. Professor Chang is a Lawyer of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. He also teaches at the University of Sydney and the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies in Geneva.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course aims to present a panorama of public international law, giving students a general understanding of the rules governing international relations, and providing students with practical skills in applying their legal knowledge to global issues. The course will adopt a practical, rather than theoretical focus, so that students learn to understand and apply international law on global issues through research, advocacy and policy-making.
The key learning outcomes include:
  * Appreciate the significant differences and similarities of international law and domestic law 
  * Understand the methodology and procedures of international law and the possibilities it provides for international dispute resolution
  * Be aware of how and why political realities often constrain the application of international law 
  * Apply legal knowledge to understand and analyse complex global issues
  * Critique a range of legal materials and arguments
  * Conduct research exercises and use research evidence appropriately to support arguments
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 13 週 Week 13 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 14 週 Week 14 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
Week |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and Homework  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Welcome to Public International Law |  Introduction to subject, assessment The nature and significance of IL |  Online Class  
2 |  _National holiday (no class)_ |  |   
3 |  The international legal order: Theory and politics |  Theories of IL, how IL is shaped by politics, critical perspectives |  Online Class  
4 |  Principles of PIL: Key principles, sources, relationship with domestic laws |  Sources of IL, interaction between IL and domestic laws |  Online Class  
5 |  Principles of PIL: Statehood, subjects & legal personality |  Subjects of IL, legal personality, sovereignty, criteria for statehood |  Online Class  
6 |  International organisations |  Importance of IOs in making of IL; International Court of Justice |  Online Class  
7 |  _National holiday (no class)_ |  |   
8 |  The UN Charter Dispute settlement |  Key provisions of the UN Charter  Peaceful settlement of disputes |  In-person Class  
9 |  The use of force |  Use of force under the UN Charter and custom |  In-person Class  
10 |  International human rights law |  Core human rights treaties and content |  In-person Class  
11 |  International humanitarian law International criminal law |  The Geneva Conventions International core crimes  |  In-person Class  
12 |  Refugee law Law of the Sea |  The Refugee Convention Sea boundaries, air space |  In-person Class  
13 |  International environmental law Diplomatic law |  Environmental treaties Diplomatic inviolability, immunities |  Online Class  
14 |  Student presentations |  PIL casework learning |  Online Class  
15 |  _National holiday (no class)_ |  |   
16 |  State responsibility Exam revision |  Consequences for breaches of international law |  In-person Class  
17 |  Final examination |  |  In-person Exam  
18 |  |  |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.