國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：人文地理
#####  Course Name: Human Geography
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1023001 Course No.ZU1023001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學二 Course Department:Global Studies/B/2 
  * 授課老師：陳虹穎 Instructor: CHEN HUNG-YING 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course aims to develop an understanding of human geography that equips students to better navigate and make sense of the complex interactions between society and the environment in daily life. The course is divided into three parts.
In the first part, we will construct the foundational concepts of human geography. This includes exploring the workings of power in space and the power-rights debate through the theoretical lenses of time, territory, identity, mobility, and gender.
The second part, _Geographies of Sustainable Development_ , involves engaging with geographical analyses across a variety of themes through collaborative reading and discussion.
In the third part, _Translocal Classroom_ , students will conduct thematic urban exploration experiments that combine on-site spatial observation, analysis, theoretical reading, and the application of various tools.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Subject-specific Knowledge
On successful completion of this module students will be able to:
  * Demonstrate comprehension of a range of human geographical ideas and knowledge of the diversity of human life-worlds, places, and the production of difference and inequality
  * Assess, judge and critically evaluate competing intellectual positions
  * critically engage with key issues in human geography
Subject-specific Skills
On successful completion of this module students will be able to:
  * Develop the sensitivity about the roles of spatiality plays in different issues and contexts
  * Abstracting and synthesizing information
  * Strengthening argumentation ability  
Key Skills
  * Field site observation
  * Oral and written communication
  * Contextualizing information
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 16 週 Week 16 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
週次/日期 Week |  課程主題 Topics |  教學活動  
Teaching Content |  作業 Assignment |  學習時間 Hours of Learning  
---|---|---|---|---  
Section 1: Basic Concepts in Human Geography  
1  
2/18 |  Course Overview  
課程簡介
  1. _Class Orientation_
  2. _Introducing Key Concepts in Geography:_ Space, time, place, scale, landscape
|  *Warm-Up activity |  Getting to know each other and the course |  3  
Weekly Reading:  
This Syllabus  
Danny Dorling & Carl Lee (2016) _Geography: Ideas in Profile, London: Profile Books (Introduction)_ Extended Reading: Society & Space website https://www.societyandspace.org/  
Place Journal website https://placesjournal.org/explore-places/asia/page/2/ |  0  
2  
 2/25 |  Space, Place, and Time |  Lecture, Guided reading, and Discussion |  Assignment 1: Weekly Memo |  3  
Weekly Reading Massey, Doreen (June 1991) A Global Sense of Place, Marxism Today https://www.projectenportfolio.nl/images/6/69/Massey_-Global_Sense_of_Place_-_1994-.pdf Mathews, Gordon (2011) Ghetto at the Center of the World, Chicago: University of Chicago Press. (Chapter 1. Place) Extended Reading Stuart Aitken, Gill Valentine (eds.) (2015) _Approaches to Human Geography: Philosophies, theories, people, and practices_ , Sage Publishing.  
(Chapter 2: Positivist Geography)  |  4-6  
3  
 3/4 |  Territory, Politics, and Identity |  Lecture, Guided reading, Group Discussion |  |  3  
Weekly Readings Jones, Andrew (2012) Human Geography: The Basics, Taylor & Francis Book (Ch.4 States, Nations, and Cultures) Delaney, David (2019) _Territory: a short introduction_ , UK: John Wiley & Sons. (Chapter 1: Entering the Territory of Territory) Extended reading Delaney, David (2019) _Territory: a short introduction_ , UK: John Wiley & Sons. (Chapter 2: _DISCIPLINING AND UNDISCIPLINING TERRITORY)_ |  4-6  
4  
3 /11 |  Nature, Culture, and Power |  Lecture, guided reading, and discussion |  |  3  
Weekly Readings Jones, Andrew (2012) Human Geography: The Basics, Taylor & Francis Book (Ch.3 Development & Environment) Extended reading |  4-6  
5  
3 /18 |  Agency, Structure, and Everyday Life |  |  |   
|   
Section 2: Geographies of Sustainability  
6*  
3 /25 |  Guest talk│Terroir: Locational philosophy of taste and sustainability (with Guest Lecturer: Dr. Huang-Wei Chang) |  Lecture, class activity, and discussion |  Initial grouping activity  *Each group to discuss/decide a theme of your case study with the course instructor |  3  
Weekly Readings Bowen, Sarah (2010) Embedding Local Places in Global Spaces: Geographical Indications as a Territorial Development Strategy, _Rural Sociology 75_(2), 2010, pp. 209–243 Extended Resource Robert T. Valgenti (2022) Ungrounding Terroir, East Asian Journal of Philosophy Vol.1, n.2., pp.41-58. |  4-6  
7  
4 /1 |  Ethics of Urban Life (i): Open vs. Closed Cities |  Self-Guided Field Observation |  |  3  
Weekly reading Sennett, Richard (2018/ 2023) Building and Dwelling: Ethics for the City, Yale University Press. (Ch. 3-4) |  4-6  
8   
4/8 |  Ethics of Urban Life (ii): Cities - Smart or Stupid? |  Lecture, Guided reading, Discussion |  Workshop Assignment 2: Profiling _ - Write about the Place You Once Lived |  3  
Weekly Readings Sennett, Richard (2018/ 2023) Building and Dwelling: Ethics for the City, Yale University Press. (Ch. 5-6) Extended Reading  
Sadowski J. (2020) Too Smart: How Digital Capitalism Is Extracting Data, Controlling Our Lives, and Taking over the World: Edited by Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. Greenfield, Adam (2017) Radical technologies: the design of everyday life, New York: Verso Books. |  4-6  
9   
4/15 |  Mid-Term Exam Week |  Take-home exam (proposal-oriented questions) |  Online/E-mail Submission (questions are designed for integrating HG knowledge with your tentative proposal) |  0  
Take-home Exam (Exam Paper+ Preparing your 1-page project idea to the class) |  7-9  
10  
4/22 |  Energy & Resource Geographies |  Lecture, Guided reading, Discussion |  In-Class Workshop: Mapping Extractive Geographies |  3  
Weekly Readings Bridge, Gavin (2009). “Material Worlds: Natural Resources, Resource Geography, and the Material Economy.” _Geography Compass, 3_(3), 1217–1244. Extended Listening  
Planet Money  
https://www.npr.org/podcasts/510289/planet-money |  4-6  
Section 3: Translocal Classroom  
11*  
4/29 |  Doing Urban Research (with Guest Lecturer: Dr. Huang-Wei Chang) |  Lecture, Field Visit, Group Discussion |  In-Class: Group-based Exploration, Practicing Field Observation Notes |   
Weekly Readings Phillips, R. and Johns, J. (2012) Fieldwork for Human Geography, Thousand Oaks: Sage. (Chapter 1. Getting the Most Out of Fieldwork) Task before Week 13 Visiting any of these places: Traditional markets, weekend flea markets, shopping malls with provided instruction Extended Resource Sennett, Richard (2018/ 2023) Building and Dwelling: Ethics for the City, Yale University Press. (Ch. 7) ArcGIS StoryMaps https://www.esri.com/en-us/arcgis/products/arcgis-storymaps/overview 洪伯邑、陳懷萱、黃舒楣、黃書緯、呂欣怡、陳怡伃 (2021) 田野敲敲門：現地研究基本功。台北：國立臺灣大學出版中心。 |  4-6  
12*  
5/6 |  Urban Forms and Its Politics (with Guest Lecturer: Dr. Huang-Wei Chang) |  *Potential urban site observation, with post-visit discussions |  Bring your Pilot Fieldnotes to the class |  3  
Weekly Readings Sennett, Richard (2018/ 2023) Building and Dwelling: Ethics for the City, Yale University Press. (Ch. 8-9)  
Extended Readings Graham, Steve (2016) Vertical: The City from Satellites to Bunkers, NY: Verso. |  4-6  
13   
5/13 |  Gender, Place, and Culture |  Lecture, Guided reading, Discussion |  |   
Weekly Readings Pain, Rachel & Smith, Susan (2008). Fear: Critical Geopolitics and Everyday Life Extended Reading  
Cresswell, Tim (1996). In Place/Out of Place: Geography, Ideology, and Transgression. |   
14  
5/20 |  Political Space, Society and Culture (i) |  Lecture, discussion, self-guided field visits |  Assignment 4: Profiling _ - Write about the Place You Live In |  3  
Weekly Readings Sennett, Richard (2018/ 2023) Building and Dwelling: Ethics for the City, Yale University Press. (Ch. 8-9)  
Extended Readings Graham, Steve (2016) Vertical: The City from Satellites to Bunkers, NY: Verso. |  4-6  
15  
5/27 |  Political Space, Society and Culture (ii) |  Lecture, Guided reading, Discussion |  Group-based, self-guided site visits, field notes |  3  
Weekly Readings Sennett, Richard (2018/ 2023) Building and Dwelling: Ethics for the City, Yale University Press. (Ch. 8) Disciplinary Society https://pressbooks.pub/surveillancestudies/chapter/disciplinary-society/ |   
16  
6/3 |  Final Report Preparation (No Class) |  |  *Video/ Poster/or other alternative outputs of Your Fieldwork Report. Selected group will be invited to present at June 6 th USR Fest@ICI)  |  3  
|  4-6  
17  
6/10 |  Final Class Presentation + Submission of Final Report  |  |  |  3  
|  4-6  
18  
6/17 |  End-of-Term/ Flexible Learning (No Class) |   
|   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.