國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：專題二：全球議題在亞洲
#####  Course Name: Specialized Course II (ASSD): Global Issues in Asia
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1034001 Course No.ZU1034001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學三、創國學四 Course Department:Global Studies/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：歐子綺 Instructor: OU TZU-CHI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
_"Global Issues in Asia"_ offers junior and senior undergraduate students an exploration of major global issues within the framework of Asian studies and anthropology. This is an advanced course that continues with the Anthropology course (ZU1007001). We will explore five “foreshadowed problems”: history, subject, structure, difference, and perception. Each section contains three global issues. Throughout the course, we will examine issues including imagination, pop culture, algorithms, precarity, inequality, political unrest, ethnic conflicts, technology and innovation, the Anthropocene, and diverse forms of life. We will ask how emerging global issues manifest in Asian societies and explore the distinctive ways these societies engage with key challenges. We will also engage with foundational dialogues and emerging themes in Asian studies, analyzing contemporary ethnographies from anthropology, sociology, and media studies that trace the evolution of these debates and concerns. This is a reading-intensive course with a strong emphasis on interactive ethnographic practices , laying the groundwork for introductory fieldwork experience.
「全球議題在亞洲」是針對創新國際學院大三、大四學生開設的專題課程，其內容聚焦於全球重大議題，藉此探索當代亞洲社會與文化所面臨的挑戰與機遇。這是一門進階人類學 的課程，我們將延續人類學課程(ZU1007001)裡的五個「預示性問題」（foreshadowed problems）：歷史、主體、結構、差異、認知，課程的每個單元將聚焦三個全球議題。這個學期我們將討論以下議題：想像、流行文化、演算法、不穩定階級、社會不平等、政治抗爭、族裔衝突、科技創新、人類世以及多樣的生命樣態等。一方面，課堂上將探討全球共同面對的新興課題如何在亞洲社會浮現，以及思考這些議題在亞洲呈現的特殊性。另一方面，我們也將討論不同的亞洲國家與社會如何回應全球議題的挑戰。修習本課程，學生將能了解當代亞洲研究中關鍵的全球議題、問題意識與理論，並透過人類學、社會學、媒介研究等領域的當代民族誌，了解這些議題如何浮現與轉變。這是一門著重於民族誌閱讀 的理論課程，同時將搭配課堂中的互動式民族誌實作 ，奠定初階田野實作的能力。
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  * Examine key global issues shaping contemporary Asian societies, including their cultural, social, and political impacts.
  * Apply social scientific and anthropological perspectives to critically analyze topics in Asian studies.
  * Enhance academic writing and ethnographic research skills through written assignments and participant observation projects.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 16 週 Week 16 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
_Week / Date_ |  _Topics_ |  _Assignments Due_  
---|---|---  
_1_ |  2/18 |  Asia as connected places |   
_2_ |  2/25 |  Why Taiwan? |   
_3_ |  3/4 |  Global Imagination |   
_4_ |  3/11 |  Sound and Noise |  Ethnographic Practice #1  
_5_ |  3/18 |  Pop Culture |  Media Reflection Proposal due  
_6_ |  3/25 |  Algorithms |  Ethnographic Practice #2  
_7_ |  4/1 |  Precarity |   
_8_ |  4/8 |  Inequality |   
_9_ |  4/15 |  Unrest |  Media Reflection Paper Due  
_10_ |  4/22 |  Encounters |  Ethnographic Practice #3  
_11_ |  4/29 |  Innovation |  Final Project Proposal Due  
_12_ |  5/6 |  Race |   
_13_ |  5/13 |  Anthropocene |  Ethnographic Practice #4  
_14_ |  5/20 |  Travel Seminar (optional) |   
_15_ |  5/27 |  Forms of Life  |   
_16_ |  6/3  |  Project report (no class) |   
_17_ |  6/10 |  Final presentation |  Project Presentation  
_18_ |  6/17 |  Final project submission (no class) |  Project Submission  
Part One: History and Positionality
_2/18 Week 1: Asia as connected places_
  * Jesook Song; Positioning Asia in a Global Future? An Example through Rethinking Finance.  _positions_ 1 February 2012; 20 (1): 173–182. doi:  _https://doi.org/10.1215/10679847-1471418_
Supplementary readings:
  * Tagliacozzo, Eric, Helen F. Siu, and Peter C. Perdue. Introduction in _Asia Inside Out: Connected Places_ / Edited by Eric Tagliacozzo, Helen F. Siu, Peter C. Perdue. Ed. Eric Tagliacozzo, Helen F. Siu, and Peter C. Perdue. Cambridge, Massachusetts; Harvard University Press, 2015. 
_2/25 Week 2: Why Taiwan?_
  * Lin, Wei-Ping. Chapter 10 in Island Fantasia: Imagining Subjects on the Military Frontline between China and Taiwan , 2021.
  * Dirlik, Arif. 2018. “Taiwan: The Land Colonialisms Made.” _Boundary 2_ 45 (3): 1–25. _https://doi.org/10.1215/01903659-6915545_.
Supplementary readings:
  * _Island in Between_.
_3/4 Week 3: Global Imagination_
  * Allison, Anne. _Millennial monsters: Japanese toys and the global imagination._ University of California Press, 2006.
  * Teri J. Silvio. _Puppets, Gods, and Brands: Theorizing the Age of Animation from Taiwan._ University of Hawaii Press, 2019.
Part Two: Subject and Media
_3/11 Week 4: Sound and Noise_
  * Hsieh, Jennifer C. “Making Noise in Urban Taiwan.” _American Ethnologist_ 48, no. 1 (2021): 51–64. _https://doi.org/10.1111/amet.13003_.
  * Tan, S., L. Ó. Briain, and M. Y. Ong. "Narrowcasting into the infinite margins: internet sonorities of transient Indonesian domestic workers in Singapore." _Sound Communities in the Asia Pacific: Music, Media, and Technology_ (2021): 49-70.
Supplementary readings:
  * _The Sound and the Theory: A Conversation with Anthropology Assistant Professor Jennifer Hsieh_
  * _Sounds of Precarious Labour_
  * Manabe, Noriko. 2015. The Revolution Will Not Be Televised: Protest Music After Fukushima. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.
  * Rumsby, C. (2020). ‘ _Retrospective (re)presentation: turning the written ethnographic text into an ‘ethno-graphic’’_ _entanglements_ , 3(2):7-27. 
Ethnographic Practice #1
_3/18 Week 5: Pop Culture_
  * Kim, Suk-Young. _K-pop live: Fans, idols, and multimedia performance_. Stanford University Press, 2020.
  * Kim, Ju Oak. "BTS as method: A counter-hegemonic culture in the network society." _Media, Culture & Society_ 43, no. 6 (2021): 1061-1077.
Supplementary readings:
  * Phillips, Kathryn, and Thomas Baudinette. "Shin-Ōkubo as a feminine ‘K-pop space’: gendering the geography of consumption of K-pop in Japan." Gender, Place & Culture 29, no. 1 (2022): 80-103.
  * Fuhr, Michael. _Globalization and popular music in South Korea_ : Sounding out K-pop. Routledge, 2015.
  * Cruz, Angela Gracia B., Yuri Seo, and Itir Binay. "Cultural globalization from the periphery: Translation practices of English-speaking K-pop fans." Journal of Consumer Culture 21, no. 3 (2021): 638-659. 
Media Reflection Proposal due
_3/25 Week 6: Algorithms_
  * Prologue, Chapter 6, and epilogue in Seaver, Nick. _Computing taste: algorithms and the makers of music recommendation._ University of Chicago Press, 2022.
  * Bhandari, Aparajita, and Sara Bimo. "Why’s everyone on TikTok now? The algorithmized self and the future of self-making on social media." _Social media+ society_ 8, no. 1 (2022): 20563051221086241.
  * Seaver, Nick. "Attention Is All You Need: Humans and Computers in the Time of Neural Networks." In _Scenes of Attention: Essays on Mind, Time, and the Senses_ , pp. 230-248. Columbia University Press, 2023.
Supplementary readings:
  * Pedersen, Morten Axel, Kristoffer Albris, and Nick Seaver. "The political economy of attention." _Annual Review of Anthropology_ 50 (2021): 309-325.
  * Boyer, Dominic. 2013. _The Life Informatic: Newsmaking in the Digital Era_. Expertise. Cultures and Technologies of Knowledge. Ithaca; London: Cornell University Press.
  * Mullaney, Thomas S., Benjamin Peters, Mar Hicks, and Kavita Philip, eds. 2021. _Your Computer Is on Fire_. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press.
Ethnographic Practice #2
Part Three: Structure
_4/1 Week 7: Precarity_
  * Song, Jesook.  _South Koreans in the Debt Crisis: the Creation of a Neoliberal Welfare Society_. Durham N.C: Duke University Press, 2009.
  * Cho, Mun Young. "The precariat that can speak: The politics of encounters between the educated youth and the urban poor in Seoul." _Current Anthropology_ 63, no. 5 (2022): 491-518.
Supplementary readings:
  * Standing, Guy. 2011. _T_ he Precariat: The New Dangerous Class. London, UK; New York, NY: Bloomsbury.
  * Kar, Sohini. _Financializing Poverty: Labor and Risk in Indian Microfinance_. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2018.
  * Koch, Gabriele. _Healing Labor: Japanese Sex Work in the Gendered Economy._ Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2020.
  * Guérin, Isabelle, Santosh Kumar, and Govindan Venkatasubramanian. _The Indebted Woman: Kinship, Sexuality, and Capitalism._ Stanford University Press, 2023.
  * Allison, Anne. 2013. _Precarious Japan._ Durham: Duke University Press.
_4/8 Week 8: Inequality_
  * Chan, Jenny, Mark Selden, and Ngai Pun. 2020. Preface in _Dying for an iPhone: Apple, Foxconn, and the Lives of China’s Workers_. Haymarket Books.
  * Duffy, Brooke Erin, Annika Pinch, Shruti Sannon, and Megan Sawey. 2021. ‘The Nested Precarities of Creative Labor on Social Media.’ _Social Media + Society_ 7(2): 1–12.
  * 人物，2020。“外卖骑手，困在系统里.” February 18, 2021. _https://bit.ly/2OmfJMI_ English: _https://chuangcn.org/2020/11/delivery-renwu-translation/_
Supplementary readings:
  * Ngai, Pun, and Jenny Chan. 2012. “Global Capital, the State, and Chinese Workers: The Foxconn Experience.” _Modern China_ 38 (4): 383–410. _https://doi.org/10.1177/0097700412447164_.
  * Rao, Yichen. "Dreaming like a market: The hidden script of financial inclusion in China's P2P lending platforms." _Economic Anthropology_ 8, no. 1 (2021): 102-115.
  * Cho, Mun Young. 2013. _The Specter of the People: Urban Poverty in Northeast China_. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press.
  * Akhil Gupta,  _Red Tape: Bureaucracy, Structural Violence, and Poverty in India._
_4/15 Week 9: Unrest_
  * Chuang, Ya-Chung. 2018. “Democracy under Siege: Xiangmin Politics in Sunflower Taiwan.” _Boundary 2_ 45 (3): 61–78. _https://doi.org/10.1215/01903659-6915581_.
  * Sopranzetti, Claudio. _Owners of the Map: Motorcycle Taxi Drivers, Mobility, and Politics in Bangkok_. Oakland, California: University of California Press, 2018.
Supplementary readings:
  * Ogawa, Akihiro. _Antinuclear Citizens: Sustainability Policy and Grassroots Activism in Post-Fukushima Japan._ Stanford University Press, 2023.
  * Lee, Doreen. _Activist Archives: Youth Culture and the Political Past in Indonesia_. Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 2016.
  * Spires, Anthony J. _Everyday Democracy: Civil Society, Youth, and the Struggle Against Authoritarian Culture in China_. Columbia University Press, 2024. _https://www.ncuscr.org/video/everyday-democracy-anthony-spires/_
Media Reflection Paper Due
Part Four: Difference
_4/22 Week 10: Encounters_
  * Mathews, Gordon. Chapter 3. _The World in Guangzhou: Africans and Other Foreigners in South China’s Global Marketplace_. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press, 2017.
  * Kwon, June Hee. _Borderland Dreams: The Transnational Lives of Korean Chinese Workers_. Duke University Press, 2023.
Supplementary readings:
  * Mathews, Gordon. _Ghetto at the Center of the World: Chungking Mansions, Hong Kong_. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2011.
  * Byler, Darren. _Terror Capitalism: Uyghur Dispossession and Masculinity in a Chinese City_. Durham: Duke University Press, 2021.
  * Franceschini, Ivan, and Nicholas Loubere. 2022. “Global China as Method.” _Elements in Global China_ , July. _https://doi.org/10.1017/9781108999472_.
  * Siu, Helen F., and Mike McGovern. 2017. “China-Africa Encounters: Historical Legacies and Contemporary Realities.” _Annual Review of Anthropology_ 46 (1).
Ethnographic Practice #3
_4/29 Week 11: Innovation_
  * Silvia M. Lindtner,_Prototype Nation: China and the Contested Promise of Innovation_ (Princeton University Press, 2020).
  * Bender, Shawn. _Feeling Machines: Japanese Robotics and the Global Entanglements of More-Than-Human Care_. Stanford University Press, 2024.
Supplementary readings:
  * Postill, John. "The rise of nerd politics." Digital activism and political change. John Postill. London: PlutoPress (Anthropology, culture & society) (2018). _https://www.plutobooks.com/9780745399836/the-rise-of-nerd-politics/_
Final Project Proposal Due
_5/6 Week 12: Race_
Guest Lecturer: Dr. Yu-kuei Sun
  * Sun, D. Y.-K. (2022). Racialized Bodies in Sports: Articulating ‘Asian Physical Inferiority’ in Contemporary Taiwan. In T.-H. Chen, Y. Chiang, & A. Bairner (eds.), _Sport in Taiwan: History, culture and policy_. Peter Lang.
  * Mwaniki, M. (2017). _The Black Migrant Athlete: Media, Race, and the Diaspora in Sports._ U of Nebraska Press.
Part Five: Perception and Post-humanism
_5/13 Week 13: Anthropocene_
  * Roberts, Celia, Mary Lou Rasmussen, Louisa Allen, and Rebecca Williamson. _Reproduction, kin, and climate crisis: Making bushfire babies._ Policy Press, 2023.
  * Simon, Scott E., and Frédéric Laugrand, eds. _Feathered Entanglements: Human-Bird Relations in the Anthropocene._ UBC Press, 2024.
Ethnographic Practice #4
_5/20 Week 14: Travel Seminar (optional)_
_5/27 Week 15: Forms of Life_
  * Li, Tania Murray, and Pujo Semedi. _Plantation life: corporate occupation in Indonesia's oil palm zone._ Duke University Press, 2021.
  * Morimoto, Ryo. _Nuclear Ghost: Atomic Livelihoods in Fukushima's Gray Zone_. Vol. 56. Univ of California Press, 2023.
Supplementary readings:
  * Cheng, Eric Siu-kei. "The mobile spatialization of agriculture in Hong Kong." _Journal of Rural Studies_ 106 (2024): 103208.
  * Tsing, Anna Lowenhaupt. 2015. _The Mushroom at the End of the World: On the Possibility of Life in Capitalist Ruins_. Princeton: Princeton University Press.Lukas Ley. 2021. _Building on Borrowed Time: rising seas and failing infrastructure in Semarang_. University of Minnesota Press. 
  * Kimura, Aya Hirata. _Radiation Brain Moms and Citizen Scientists: The Gender Politics of Food Contamination after the Fukushima_. Duke Ebooks. Durham: Duke University Press, 2016.
6/3 Week 16:_Project report. No class._
_6/10 Week 17: Final presentation._
_6/17 Week 18: Final project submission. No class._
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.