國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：社會理論中的全球環境：經濟、政治與生態
#####  Course Name: Global Environment in Social Theory: Economics, Politics, and Ecology
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1864001 Course No.ZU1864001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學二、創國學三、創國學四 Course Department:Global Studies/B/2&3&4 
  * 授課老師：江順楠 Instructor: CHIANG SHUN-NAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
The modern world is facing numerous environmental challenges that have become deeply embedded in our daily lives. Yet, engaging in meaningful discussions about these issues often feels overwhelming and difficult to navigate. This is partly because we may lack familiarity with the diverse assumptions and underlying premises that shape these discourses. With this in mind, this course is designed for ICI students who have a basic understanding of social sciences and are eager to connect that knowledge to critical environmental concerns. It aims to equip students with a comprehensive foundation in environment-related social science concepts, providing a stepping stone for more advanced studies in the future.
As such, this course is best suited for those new to the study of environmental issues. Students with a deeper understanding of these topics may find it more beneficial to enroll in advanced courses focusing on specific areas, such as environmental economics, sustainability transitions, or human ecology.
The course is organized around three central themes: economics, politics, and ecology. These aspects are interconnected and provide a comprehensive framework for understanding the complex relationships between society and the environment.
  * In the first part, we will explore theories addressing the relationship between economic development and environmental issues.
  * The second part examines the political dimensions of human-environment interactions, including various governance and policy approaches.
  * The third part focuses on ecology, analyzing how different disciplines conceptualize and apply ecological principles and their broader implications.
To enhance your learning experience, the course incorporates diverse activities that bring global environmental issues into the classroom, helping to ground social theories in real-world contexts. You will also have ample opportunities to apply these theories to specific environmental issues, fostering both critical thinking and practical application.
Course Format
  * Group Discussion & Short Lecture:
My role will be a facilitator who supports your learning. In particular, this course is built on group discussion and collective learning. Most learning will be based on reading assigned materials, discussion, and class activities. I will supplement these activities with short lectures that help contextualize readings, articulate learning themes across weeks, and move the discussion forward.
  * A Student-centered Learning App roach:
I employ a _student-centered learning approach_ in this course rather than a traditional lecture format (i.e., you listen to lectures to learn knowledge). The methods of learning in this course, thus, involve two major aspects: 
  *     * Careful and critical reading of assigned materials. I will provide a _weekly study guide_ to help you think and read materials with _intention_.
    * Moderated group discussion. Everyone will be assigned to a discussion group of around 5-6 students. You will be mainly interacting with these group mates throughout the semester. Everyone will rotate to serve as a group discussion facilitator and write summary reports for the group discussion.
Learning Activities
  * Guided Reading Note:
I will provide guiding questions for each assigned reading to help you navigate and understand readings. These questions will not be difficult and only involve the readings’ most important aspects of knowledge. You will need to “answer” these guiding questions by taking notes in any way you prefer. You are not required to write lengthy answers or take extensive notes. The minimum requirement is 2-3 sentences for each question. 
  * Synthesis Paper
Throughout the course, you will need to analyze a specific environmental issue of your choice. At the end of the semester, you will need to finish a synthesis paper using theoretical frameworks that we learn in each week. I will also assist you to finish this paper every step of the way. Thus, I have divided the paper into four tasks that you will accomplish in different weeks of the semester. I will also provide a more detailed guideline for each task during the course.
  1. Problem statement
  2. Analysis table
  3. First draft
  4. Finalized article
  * The World Environment This Week:
To facilitate you cultivate familiarity with environmental issues across the globe and to stay connected with the global world, I developed this learning activity called “The World Environment This Week.” Everyone will rotate to share the latest global environmental news each week.
  * Study Journal:
Study Journal is a Google document you share with me. I will provide detailed instructions later for how to create your Study Journal. I hope this Study Journal will serve as a platform for you to monitor and track your learning progress. It will also be a good way for me to know how you are doing during these four months and what measures I could do to support your learning. You will be responsible for maintaining this Study Journal throughout the 4-month course. In specific, this Study Journal will include four components.
  1. At the beginning of the course, you will need to develop your learning schedule for all the course assignments stated in the syllabus. (mandatory)
  2. In the 9th week of the course, you will need to do a mid-term reflection to evaluate your learning so far and how you may adjust your study plan in the next two months. (mandatory)
  3. At the end of the course, you will need to write a brief report evaluating your learning during these four months. (mandatory)
  4. You are welcome to write an update on your learning progress and status any time during the semester (e.g., once a week) on the same document. (optional)
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
During this course, you will have the opportunity to learn how to:
  * analyze and compare various social science and humanities frameworks used to understand environmental issues
  * apply these frameworks to analyzing specific environmental issues. 
  * integrate concepts from different theoretical traditions to construct well-rounded arguments about global environmental issues.
  * communicate complex ideas related to environmental theories and practices clearly, both orally and in writing.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 6 週 Week 6 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
_Schedule of Classes_
Week |  Topic |  Assigned Reading  
---|---|---  
#1 2/20 |  Course introduction |  None  
Part I: Economics  
#2 2/27 |  Environmental Economics |  Harris, Jonathan M., and Brian Roach. _Environmental and natural resource economics: A contemporary approach_. Routledge. 2017. (_Ch3_)  
#3 3/6 |  Ecological Modernization & Green Growth |  Mol, Arthur PJ, David A. Sonnenfeld, and Gert Spaargaren, eds. _The Ecological Modernisation Reader: Environmental Reform in Theory and Practice_. Routledge, 2020. (_Ch2_)  
#4 3/13 |  Global Environment Governance (Guest Lecture) |  Warde, Paul, Libby Robin, and Sverker Sörlin. _The Environment. A History of the Idea_. 2021. Johns Hopkins University Press (_Ch1_)  
#5 3/20 |  Eco-Marxism  |  Engel-Di Mauro, Salvatore. "Ecological Marxism."_Ecosocialism: An Introduction_. Cham: Springer Nature Switzerland, 2024. (_Ch5_).  
#6 3/27 |  Self-learning  
#7 4/3 |  Holiday  
Part II: Politics  
#8 4/10 |  Sustainability Transition |  Loorbach, Derk, Niki Frantzeskaki, and Flor Avelino. "Sustainability transitions research: transforming science and practice for societal change." _Annual review of environment and resources_ 42.1 (2017): 599-626.  
#9 4/17 |  Environmental Justice |  Mohai, Paul, David Pellow, and J. Timmons Roberts. "Environmental justice." _Annual Review of Environment and Resources_ 34.1 (2009): 405-430.  
#10 4/24 |  Political Ecology |  Robbins, Paul. _Political Ecology: A Critical Introduction_. John Wiley & Sons, 2019. (_Ch4_)  
#11 5/1 |  STS on Environmental Science |  Frickel, Scott, and Florencia Arancibia. "Environmental science and technology studies." _Handbook of Environmental Sociology_ (2021): 457-476.  
#12 5/8 |  “Expert” Assembly #1  
Part III: Ecology  
#13 5/15 |  Ecological Economics  & De-growth Theory |  Daly, Herman E., and Joshua Farley. _Ecological Economics: Principles and Applications_. Island Press, 2011. (_Ch1_)  
#14 5/22 |  Feminist Ecology |  Harcourt, Wendy, et al. _Contours of Feminist Political Ecology_. Springer Nature, 2023. (_Ch2_)  
#15 5/29 |  Multi-Species Ethnography  & Anthropocene  |  Tsing, Anna Lowenhaupt, Andrew S. Mathews, and Nils Bubandt. "Patchy Anthropocene: Landscape structure, multispecies history, and the retooling of anthropology: An introduction to supplement 20." _Current Anthropology_ 60.S20 (2019): S186-S197.  
#16 6/5 |  Environmental History |  Hughes, J. Donald. _What is environmental history?_. John Wiley & Sons, 2016. (Ch1)  
#17 6/12 |  “Expert” Assembly #2  
#18 6/19 |  Self-learning – working on the Synthesis Paper  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.