國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：氣候變遷下的全球食物體系
#####  Course Name: Climate Change and Global Food System
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1865001 Course No.ZU1865001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學三、創國學四 Course Department:Global Studies/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：江順楠 Instructor: CHIANG SHUN-NAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
In recent years, as the trend of global warming has become increasingly evident, the international community and national governments have actively promoted a variety of response measures. In this process, the future development of the global food system has emerged as a critical issue in climate policy. On one hand, the food system accounts for approximately 30% of global carbon emissions, making it a major driver of global warming. On the other hand, the extreme weather events brought about by climate change directly threaten the stability of food production. Furthermore, agricultural technology and sustainable practices in ecological farming are seen as vital strategies for addressing extreme weather and reducing global carbon emissions, offering potential solutions for governments in climate governance. As such, the role of the global food system in climate change is complex and multifaceted. It is both a significant source of the problem and a key player in the adaptation and mitigation of climate change. 
This course seeks to provide a comprehensive understanding of the complex relationship between climate change and the global food system. It is structured into three interconnected parts, each focusing on a key dimension of this relationship.
The first part examines the contribution of the global food system to global warming, exploring the underlying factors and drivers of its carbon footprint. The second part delves into the impacts of climate change on the global food system and local communities, including the effects of extreme weather events and the challenges posed by net-zero carbon emission policies. Finally, the third part explores innovative agricultural systems, technologies, and sustainable practices that are positioned to offer potential solutions to mitigate and adapt to climate change.
_Course Format_
  * Group Discussion & Short Lecture:
My role will be a facilitator who supports your learning. In particular, this course is built on group discussion and collective learning. Most learning will be based on reading assigned materials, discussion, and class activities. I will supplement these activities with short lectures that help contextualize readings, articulate learning themes across weeks, and move the discussion forward.
  * A Student-centered Learning App roach:
I employ a _student-centered learning approach_ in this course rather than a traditional lecture format (i.e., you listen to lectures to learn knowledge). The methods of learning in this course, thus, involve two major aspects: 
  *     * Careful and critical reading of assigned materials. I will provide a _weekly study guide_ to help you think and read materials with _intention_.
    * Moderated group discussion. Everyone will be assigned to a discussion group of around 5-6 students. You will be mainly interacting with these group mates throughout the semester. Everyone will rotate to serve as a group discussion facilitator and write summary reports for the group discussion.
_Learning Activities_
  * Guided Reading Note:
I will provide guiding questions for each assigned reading to help you navigate and understand readings. These questions will not be difficult and only involve the readings’ most important aspects of knowledge. You will need to “answer” these guiding questions by taking notes in any way you prefer. You are not required to write lengthy answers or take extensive notes. The minimum requirement is 2-3 sentences for each question. 
  * Climate Change Impact Report – non-human perspective
Throughout the course, you will also need to study a specific issue regarding the relationship between climate change and the global food system. This investigation will employ a non-human perspective. You need to select a “non-human” entity – a specific type of crops or a particular kind of infrastructure underlying the global food commodity chain, a specific kind of farming technique, or other entities that you are interested in. The main goal of the study is to assess the impact of climate change through the lens of this “non-human” entity. In the end, you will need to write up a policy-style report. I will provide a more detailed guideline during the course.
  * Study Journal:
Study Journal is a Google document you share with me. I will provide detailed instructions later for how to create your Study Journal. I hope this Study Journal will serve as a platform for you to monitor and track your learning progress. It will also be a good way for me to know how you are doing during these four months and what measures I could do to support your learning. You will be responsible for maintaining this Study Journal throughout the 4-month course. In specific, this Study Journal will include four components.
  1. At the beginning of the course, you will need to develop your learning schedule for all the course assignments stated in the syllabus. (mandatory)
  2. In the 9th week of the course, you will need to do a mid-term reflection to evaluate your learning so far and how you may adjust your study plan in the next two months. (mandatory)
  3. At the end of the course, you will need to write a brief report evaluating your learning during these four months. (mandatory)
  4. You are welcome to write an update on your learning progress and status any time during the semester (e.g., once a week) on the same document. (optional)
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of this course, you will be able to:
  * analyze how the global food systems contribute to greenhouse gas emissions and environmental degradation.
  * evaluate the vulnerabilities of food systems to climate change and their socio-economic consequences.
  * explore innovative practices and policies that align food systems with climate mitigation and adaptation goals.
  * synthesize interdisciplinary perspectives to propose sustainable solutions to food system challenges.
  * practice how to write policy-oriented reports based on data and literature analysis.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 6 週 Week 6 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 完成指定課後作業或作品Completion of designated after-course assignment or work  
_Schedule of Classes_
Week |  Topic |  Assigned Reading  
---|---|---  
#1 2/18 |  Course introduction  
#2 2/25 |  Introduction to Climate Change and Food Systems |  Campbell, Bruce, et al., eds. _Transforming food systems under climate change through innovation_. Cambridge University Press, 2023. (Ch1)  
Part I: Global System as the Cause  
#3 3/4 |  Calculating the GHG emissions from the global food system |  Crippa, Monica, et al. "Food systems are responsible for a third of global anthropogenic GHG emissions." _Nature_ food 2.3 (2021): 198-209. Selective policy briefs from the FAOSTAT ANALYTICAL BRIEF series.  
#4 3/11 |  Industrial Agriculture and Climate Change, Part 1: Thinking with Plantationocene |  Haraway, Donna, et al. "Anthropologists are talking–about the Anthropocene." _Ethnos_ 81.3 (2016): 535-564. Wolford, Wendy. "The Plantationocene: A lusotropical contribution to the theory." _Annals of the American Association of Geographers_ 111.6 (2021): 1622-1639.  
#5 3/18 |  Industrialized Agriculture and Climate Change, Part 2: Thinking with Eco-Marxism |  Weis, Tony. "The accelerating biophysical contradictions of industrial capitalist agriculture." _Journal of agrarian change_ 10.3 (2010): 315-341.  
#6 3/25 |  Self-learning  
Part II: Global System as the Impacted  
#7 4/1 |  Crop Production |  Hatfield, Jerry L., et al. "Climate impacts on agriculture: implications for crop production." _Agronomy journal_ 103.2 (2011): 351-370.  
#8 4/8 |  Global food commodity chain |  Godde, Cécile M., et al. "Impacts of climate change on the livestock food supply chain; a review of the evidence." Global food security 28 (2021): 100488. FAO. 2020. “Climate change: Unpacking the burden on food safety.” _Food safety and quality series_ No. 8. Rome.  
#9 4/15 |  Vulnerable Regions and Communities |  FAO. 2019. _Handbook on climate information for farming communities – What farmers need and what is available_. Rome. (_selective chapters_)  
#10 4/22 |  Guest Lecture  
#11 4/29 |  Climate adaptation |  Fresco, Louise O. "Challenges for food system adaptation today and tomorrow." _Environmental science & policy_ 12.4 (2009): 378-385. Selective policy briefs from the FAO-ADAPT Policy series.  
Part III: Global System as the Solution  
#12 5/6 |  The rising policy trend of the net-zero transition |  Sutton, William R., Alexander Lotsch, and Ashesh Prasann. "Recipe for a Livable Planet-Achieving Net Zero Emissions in the Agrifood System: Overview." _World Bank Group_ (2024).  
#13 5/13 |  “Plant(meat-alternative)”-Based Diets and Sustainable Food Consumption |  Cusworth, George, Tara Garnett, and Jamie Lorimer. "Legume dreams: The contested futures of sustainable plant-based food systems in Europe." _Global_ _Environmental Change_ 69 (2021): 102321. Mylan, Josephine, John Andrews, and Damian Maye. "The big business of sustainable food production and consumption: Exploring the transition to alternative proteins." _Proceedings of_ _the National Academy of Sciences_ 120.47 (2023): e2207782120.  
#14 5/20 |  NCCU Anniversary Celebration (No Class)  
#15 5/27 |  Climate-Smart Agriculture? Circular Food Systems & Regenerative Agriculture |  Lipper, Leslie, et al. _Climate smart agriculture: building resilience to climate change_. Springer Nature, 2017. Ghosh, Shambhunath, et al. "Regenerative Agriculture for Climate Change Mitigation and Food Security." Regenerative Agriculture for Sustainable Food Systems. Singapore: Springer Nature Singapore, 2024. 83-133. (_selective chapters_)  
#16 6/3 |  Non-human gathering, Part One  
#17 6/10 |  Non-human gathering, Part Two  
#18 6/17 |  Working on final report  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.