國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：東亞政治與經濟發展
#####  Course Name: Political Economy of East Asia
  * 學年學期：113-2 Spring Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1902001 Course No.ZU1902001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學一、創國學二、創國學三、創國學四 Course Department:Global Studies/B/1&2&3&4 
  * 授課老師：曾偉峯 Instructor: TZENG WEI-FENG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四567 Session: thu14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course introduces the political and economic developments of East Asian countries, along with theories of compartivie politics and economics that analyze such developments. Students will explore various topics related to East Asian countries throughout the course. To facilitate this, the course commences with a review of theories explaining economic success and political democratization in East Asia. Subsequently, it delves into discussions on emerging issues associated with the rise of China. The objective is for students to cultivate a comprehensive understanding of East Asian politics and the economy, providing a foundation for their future research pursuits.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
To provide students with an in-depth understanding of political and economic development in East Asia, as well as to cultivate the capability to independently think and analyze relevant issues.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
教學週次Course Week |  彈性補充教學週次Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week |  彈性補充教學類別Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2週16+2 weeks | 第 17 週 Week 17 | 課程相關線上學習Course-related online learning  
第 18 週 Week 18 | 自主總整學習Capstone self-learning  
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 |  Introduction to the class |  |  |  2-3 |  3  
2 |  Knowing East Asia |  The Nature of Asian Politics: introduction Politics in East Asia: ch1 |  |  2-3 |  3  
3 |  Theory of late development |  Catch-Up Industrialization, intro, ch1, ch2 |  |  2-3 |  3  
4 |  Developmental policies |  Catch-Up Industrialization, ch 6 Politics in East Asia: ch2 |  |  2-3 |  3  
5 |  Developmental state |  Catch-Up Industrialization, ch 4, ch5 Politics in East Asia: ch3 |  |  2-3 |  3  
6 | Corporation governance | Catch-Up Industrialization, ch 7  
Granovetter, Mark. 2005.”Business Groups,” Pp. 429-50, in The Handbook of Economic Sociology. Ed. By Smelser, Neil J. and Richard Swedberg. New York: Russell Sage.  
Hamilton, Gary, Nicole Woolsey Biggart, and Marco Orru. 1991. "Organizational Isomorphism in East Asia: broadening the New Institutionalism." The New Institutionalism in Organizational Analysis, Chicago, University of Chicago Press |  | 2-3 | 3  
7 |  no class meeting |  Spring Break |  |  |   
8 | Democratization in East Asia |  Politics in East Asia: ch5 Fleckenstein, T., & Lee, S. C. (2017). Democratization, post-industrialization, and East Asian welfare capitalism: the politics of welfare state reform in Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan. Journal of International and Comparative Social Policy, 33(1), 36-54. | Due date for Reaction Essay 1 |  2-3 |  3  
9 |  no class meeting |  Midterm |  |  |   
10 |  Confucius culture and democracy in East Asia |  Diamond, L. (2012). China and East Asian democracy: The coming wave. Journal of Democracy, 23(1), 5-13.  
Fukuyama, F. (1995). Confucianism and democracy. Journal of Democracy, 6(2), 20-33.  
*Huntington, S. P. (1997). After twenty years: the future of the third wave. Journal of democracy, 8(4), 3-12. Hsieh, John Fuh-sheng. 2025, "Democratization in Confucian Societies."  _Asian Survey_ : 1-30. https://online.ucpress.edu/as/article/doi/10.1525/as.2024.2455423/204745 |  |  2-3 |  3  
11 |  Political cleavage Labor politics and ethnic politics |  Lee, Y. (2006). Varieties of labor politics in northeast Asian democracies: political institutions and union activism in Korea and Taiwan. Asian Survey, 46(5), 721-740.  
Amy Chua "Our Most Dangerous Export" The Guardian 28 Feb 2004 (summarizes argument of Chua's World on Fire) |  |  2-3 |  3  
12 |  Politics of China |  Politics in China ch1, 3 |  |  2-3 |  3  
13 | Chinese Political System |  Politics in China ch5, 6 |  |  2-3 |  3  
14 |  China's Economic Miracle and Society |  Politics in China ch 4, 7, 8, 9 Jessica C. Teets. 2013. “Let Many Civil Societies Bloom: The Rise of Consultative Authoritarianism in China.” The China Quarterly 213: 19-38. | Due date for Reaction Essay 2 |  2-3 |  3  
15 |  China and East Asian Political Economy |  Woetzel, J., Seong, J., Leung, N., Ngai, J., & Manyika, J. (2019). China and the world: Inside the dynamics of a changing relationship. Executive summary.  https://tinyurl.com/bdfa6ek5 The full report can be downloaded at  https://tinyurl.com/p3c6unvk |  |  2-3 |  3  
16 |  External and Internal Challenges of East Asia |  Chu, Yun-han, Liu Kang, and Min-hua Huang. (2015) "How East Asians view the rise of China." Journal of Contemporary China 24(93): 398-420. Jones, Gavin W. (2019) "Ultra-low fertility in East Asia: policy responses and challenges." Asian Population Studies 15(2): 131-149. |  Reaction Essay 3 (Optional) Group Presentation |  2-3 |  3  
17 | no class meeting |  |  |  |   
18 |  no class meeting |  |  |  |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.