國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：總體經濟學 
#####  Course Name: Macroeconomics
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000218001 Course No.000218001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_150_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：經濟系 Course Department:Economics 
  * 授課老師：莊奕琦 Instructor: CHUANG YIH-CHYI 
  * 先修科目：[ 經濟學(全學年)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([])
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
nMacroeconomics is a year-long course (3 credits for each semester). The goal of the course is to introduce student modern macroeconomics and related theories and empirical data under a consistent analytical framework from the short-run, the medium run, to the long-run. 
Course outline includes:   
 A tour of the world and Taiwan   
 What is Macroeconomics?   
 Indices of macroeconomic variable.   
 Goods market (simple Keynesian model)   
 Financial market   
 IS-LM model (complete Keynesian model)   
 Labor market   
 AD-AS model   
 Open economy   
 Expectations   
 Facts and Big Questions of Economic Growth   
 Technological progress and Growth   
 Monetary and fiscal policies
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備人文社會科學基礎與專業知能(Have a foundation of humanities and social sciences and professional knowledge)
  * B. 具備獨立思考與研究能力 (Possess independent thinking and research capabilities)
  * C. 具備反省、批判、溝通之能力 (Ability to reflect, criticize and communicate)
  * D. 具備發現、分析、解決問題之能力 (Ability to discover, analyze and solve problems)
  * E. 具備人文社會關懷與民主法治素養 (Possess the ability to use social care, democracy, and the rule of law in the humanities)
  * F. 增進社會參與及社會服務之實踐能力 (Improve the practical ability of social participation and service)
  * G. 具備領導能力與團隊精神 (Have leadership skills and team spirit)
  * H. 提升國際視野與外語能力 (Improve international perspective and foreign language ability)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  * Macroeconomics is the study of aggregate behavior of a country or an economy. Topics include theory of determination of national income, employment, prices, and interest rates; monetary and fiscal policy; related issues of economic growth, fluctuations, inflation and unemployment; exchange rate and international trade.
  * The goal of the course is to equip students with knowledge of modern macroeconomic theories and how to apply the theory to the real world using quantitative data. 


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Course Theme** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Activity and Homework** |  **學習投入時數** **Estimated time devoted to coursework per week**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **Lecture Hours** |  **課程前後** **Preparation Time**  
1 |   A tour of the world and Taiwan |  see suggested text book's corresponding chapters |  lectures, class discussion & TA session |  3.0 |  4.5  
2 |  What is Macroeconomics?Indices of macroeconomic variable.  |  see suggested text book's corresponding chapters |  lectures, class discussion & TA session |  3.0 |  4.5  
3 |  Goods market (simple Keynesian model)  |  see suggested text book's corresponding chapters |  lectures, class discussion & TA session |  3.0 |  4.5  
4 |  Goods market (simple Keynesian model)  |  see suggested text book's corresponding chapters |  lectures, class discussion & TA session |  3.0 |  4.5  
5 |  Financial market  |  see suggested text book's corresponding chapters |  lectures, class discussion & TA session |  3.0 |  4.5  
6 |  Money market and LM curve |  see suggested text book's corresponding chapters |  lectures, class discussion & TA session |  3.0 |  4.5  
7 |  Goods and Financial markets  IS-LM model (complete Keynesian model) |  see suggested text book's corresponding chapters |  lectures, class discussion & TA session |  3.0 |  4.5  
8 |  Goods and Financial markets  IS-LM model (complete Keynesian model) |  see suggested text book's corresponding chapters |  lectures, class discussion & TA session |  3.0 |  4.5  
9 |  Mid-term Exam |  corresponding chapters |  written exam |  3.0 |  4.5  
10 |  Labor market  |  see suggested text book's corresponding chapters |  lectures, class discussion & TA session |  3.0 |  4.5  
11 |  Labor market |  see suggested text book's corresponding chapters |  lectures, class discussion & TA session |  3.0 |  4.5  
12 |  IS-LM model and Aggregate demand curve |  see suggested text book's corresponding chapters |  lectures, class discussion & TA session |  3.0 |  4.5  
13 |  Labor market and Aggregate Supply curve |  see suggested text book's corresponding chapters |  lectures, class discussion & TA session |  3.0 |  4.5  
14 |   AD-AS model  |  see suggested text book's corresponding chapters |  lectures, class discussion & TA session |  3.0 |  4.5  
15 |  Policy analysis |  see suggested text book's corresponding chapters |  lectures, class discussion & TA session |  3.0 |  4.5  
16 |  Final Exam |  Chapters after mid-term exam |  writing exam |  3.0 |  4.5  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_60%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
nNo prerequisite is required for the course. 
nThere will be midterm and final exams. A number of problem sets and quizs will also be assigned during the term. 
nSemester grades are determined by in-class presentation and problem sets (30%), the midterm (35%), and the final (35%).
nExtra bonus for creative class discussion and corresponding penalty for skipping classes.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
nMacroeconomics, Olivier Blanchard, 8th ed., Prentice-Hall, 2021.
nSupplementary books:
nMacroeconomics: A Modern Approach, Robert Barro, 2008.
nMacroeconomics, Robert Hall and David Rapell, 6th ed., Norton, 2005.
nMacroeconomics, Gregory Mankiew, 3th ed., Worth, 2002.
nMacroeconomics, Robert Gordon, 9th ed., Addison-Wesley, 2003.
  * 莊奕琦，『總體經濟學』，智勝文化事業有限公司，2000。


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
禁止使用:本課程為專業基礎課程，學生需培養不需AI工具下具備獨立思考的專業基礎能力 Prohibited Uses
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Moodle E-learning website
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office hours: 
Thursday 16:10-17:00
Rm. 271666, South Wing, General Building of Colleges
Phone: 2938-7630; 29393091 ext. 51666
E-mail: ycchuang03@gmail.com
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
The course will assign a teaching assistant to help students in regular basis.
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
