國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際關係
#####  Course Name: International Relations
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000227001 Course No.000227001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_100_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外交系 Course Department:Diplomacy 
  * 授課老師：馮慕文 Instructor: FONSECA FERNANDEZ FABRICIO ANTONIO 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course introduces students to the basic premises and theoretical concepts in the field of International Relations. The main goal of this course is to assist students from different backgrounds to understand the major theoretical debates and empirical issues in the study of relations among states and other relevant actors in the international system. This can increase their interest in global issues, and prepare those who are interested in pursuing related-career paths. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The main objective of this course is to get students closer to the understanding of International Relations, from different theoretical perspectives, as well as in relevant sub-areas of study. From the introduction of mainstream theories and the alternative theoretical approaches from recent decades, to important themes such as conflict, war, institutions, security, development, environmentalism, among others, students will be able to better comprehend the diversity of opinions and explanations behind those issues. 
Throughout the semester, students are required to read the indicated chapters from the main course book, as well as trying to read the recommended supplementary materials. Each session will consist of three hours. For the first couple of hours, the instructor will provide a lecture on the main ideas and concepts for the selected topic of the day. The third hour will be devoted to interactive activities, occassionally combined with a team-based presentation prepared by students on specific study cases. It is expected that through these activities, students can also improve their critical thinking, oral and writing presentation skills.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Weekly time of in-classroom sessions: 3 hours
Expected weekly time of study and preparation prior to the class: 1-2 hours 
**W eek 1 (9/2): Course overview and introduction / What is International Relations and World Politics?**
Shannon L. Blanton and Charles W. Kegley, World Politics: Trend & Transformation, 17th Edition (Boston, MA: Cengage Learning, 2021), Chapter 1. [Hereafter: World Politics].
* Kenneth Waltz, Theory of International Politics (New York: McGraw-Hill, 1979), Chapter 1.
**Week 2 (9/9): Mainstream Theories in International Relations: Realism and Liberalism**
Blanton and Kegley, World Politics, Chapter 2.
*David A. Lake, “Theory is Dead, Long Live Theory: The End of the Great Debates and the Rise of Eclecticism in International Relations,” European Journal of International Relations 19 (2013), pp. 567-587.
*John Mearsheimer, “E. H. Carr vs. Idealism: The Battle Rages On,” International Relations, Vol. 19, No. 2 (2005), pp. 139-152.
**Week 3 (9/16): Other Theories: Constructivism, Marxism and Feminism**
Blanton and Kegley, World Politics, Chapter 2.
* Emanuel Adler, “Constructivism in International Relations: Sources, Contributions, and Debates,” in Handbook, pp. 112-145.
**Week 4 (9/23): Foreign Policy and Explanation of International Decision Making**
Blanton and Kegley, World Politics, Chapter 3.
* Duncan Snidal, “Rational Choice and International Relations,” in Walter Carlsnaes, Thomas Risse, and Beth Simmons, eds., Handbook of International Relations, 2nd. edition pp. 85-111 (London: SAGE, 2012). [Hereafter: Handbook].
**Week 5 (9/30): Great Powers, Hegemony, and Rivalries**
Blanton and Kegley, World Politics, Chapter 4.
* David Lake, “Great Power Hierarchies and Strategies in Twenty-First Century World Politics,” in Handbook, pp. 555-577.
**Week 6 (10/7): Emerging Powers and the Global South**
Blanton and Kegley, World Politics, Chapter 5.
* Richard Ned Lebow and Benjamin Valentino, “Lost in Transition: A Critical Analysis of Power Transition Theory,” International Relations, Vol. 23, No. 3 (2009), pp. 389-410.
**Week 7 (10/14): Increasing Relevance of Non-state Actors**
Blanton and Kegley, World Politics, Chapter 6.
* Marianna Charountaki, “Conceptualising Non-State Actors in International Relations,” in Marianna Charountaki and D. Irrera, eds., Mapping Non-State Actors in International Relations. Non-State Actors in International Relations, pp.1-16 (Cham: Springer, 2022).
**Week 8 (10/21): Midterm Examination**
**Week 9 (10/28): The concept of War and its Threats**
Blanton and Kegley, World Politics, Chapter 7.
* Brian Efird, Jacek Kugler and Gaspare Genna, “From War to Integration: A Generalized Power Transition Dynamic,” International Interactions, Vol. 29, No. 4 (2003), pp. 293-313.
**Week 10 (11/4): The Quest for Security, Power, and Alliances**
Blanton and Kegley, World Politics, Chapter 8.
* Jeffrey Taliaferro, “Security Seeking under Anarchy: Defensive Realism Revisited,” International Security, Vol. 25, No. 3 (2000/01), pp. 128-161.
**Week 11 (11/11): The Maintenance of Peace, International Law, and Collective Security**
Blanton and Kegley, World Politics, Chapter 9.
* John Ikenberry, “Liberal Internationalism 3.0: America and the Dilemmas of Liberal World Order,” Perspectives on Politics, Vol. 7, No. 1 (2009), pp. 71-87.
* Sebastian Rosato, "The Flawed Logic of Democratic Peace Theory," American Political Science Review, Vol. 97, No. 4 (2003), pp. 585-602.
**Week 12 (11/18): Economic Globalization and International Finances**
Blanton and Kegley, World Politics, Chapter 10.
* Jonathan Kirshner, “The Economic Sins of Modern IR Theory and the Classical Realist Alternative,” World Politics, Vol. 67, No. 1 (2015), pp. 155-183.
**Week 13 (11/25): Economic Development and International Trade**
Blanton and Kegley, World Politics, Chapter 11.
* Jana Honke and Markus Lederer, “Development and International Relations,” in Handbook, pp. 775-800.
**Week 14 (12/2): Demographic and Cultural Transformations and their impact on IR**
Blanton and Kegley, World Politics, Chapter 12.
* Monica Duffy Toft, “Religion and International Relations Theory,” in Handbook, pp. 673-691.
* Gallya Lahav and Sandra Lavenex, “International Migration,” in Handbook, pp. 746-774.
**Week 15 (12/9): Political Change and Human Rights in IR**
Blanton and Kegley, World Politics, Chapter 13.
* Thomas Risse, “Transnational Actors and World Politics,” in Handbook, pp. 426-452.
**Week 16 (12/17): Final Examination**
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_25%_
####  討論 Discussion
_15%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
This course is a required course for students at the Diplomacy Department, and student's attendance and participation are vital elements to its passing. Preparation and discussion are therefore highly encouraged. The composition of evaluation is as follows:
_Midterm Exam_ : 20%
_Final Exam_ : 30%
_Team-based presentation_ : 20%
Depending on the number of students enrolled in this course, the instructor will ask them to form teams and each one will be making a presentation throughout the semester. Each team will be selecting a study case to be presented, after previous consultation with the instructor. The team presentations will take place between Week 5 and Week 15. The number of teams and their members will be defined in the first weeks of the semester, depending on the total number of students enrolled in this course. Also, depending on the number of members per team, the average length recommended for each presentation will be determined.
After its definition and selection of the topic, the team should read all the required and supplementary materials for that session, and connect its contents to the case they will present. The team can use audiovisual materials, such as PowerPoint, Canva or Prezi files during the presentation; and if time allows it, some interactive activities at the end of it, to engage the audience.
The score of the presentation will consist in: organization and coordination of the team members (20pts.); content and coherence of the presentation (40pts.); performance of team members during the presentation and time management (40pts.).
_Attendance and Participation_ : 30%
Attendance and punctuality are a key element in the course, as well as constant participation by students. Discussion will be relevant, particularly during the last hour of each session. 
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
The required text book for this course is:
Shannon L. Blanton and Charles W. Kegley, _World Politics: Trend & Transformation_, 18th Edition (Boston, MA: Cengage Learning, 2025)**.**
The list supplementary of materials will be given to the students during the first weeks of the semester, and most of them can be found in the following edited volume:
Walter Carlsnaes, Thomas Risse, and Beth Simmons, eds., _Handbook of International Relations, 2nd. edition_(London: SAGE, 2012).
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:The use of AI will be limited to the initial steps in the preparation of the team-based presentation. The responses provided by the AI, will have to be contrasted with the team's own research. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Tuesdays 11am, or by appointment
General Building of Colleges, North Wing, 9th Floor
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
None
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
