國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：財政學
#####  Course Name: Public Finance
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000221011 Course No.000221011


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_180_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：財政系 Course Department:Public Finance 
  * 授課老師：陳國樑 Instructor: CHEN JOE 
  * 先修科目：[ 經濟學(全學年)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([])
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
(This syllabus is required by the school administrators; the class will proceed based on the syllabus and announcement published on the course web page.)
Public finance is a field of economics mainly concerned with government (or other collective organizations') activities and the associated economic effects. The understanding of government activities and the associated economic effects helps in the design and administration of public policies. The field is often divided into questions of what the government should do or are doing (expenditure side), and questions of how to pay for those activities (revenue side).
- On the expenditure side, one may classify government expenditures into three main types. Government purchases of goods and services for current use are classed as government consumption. Government purchases of goods and services intended to create future benefits---such as infrastructure investment or research spending---are classed as government investment. Government expenditures that are not purchases of goods and services, and instead just represent transfers of money---such as social security payments---are called transfer payments. The associated effects of various government expenditures on economic incentives and on the distribution of income, wealth, and/or consumption are the focus of expenditure-side studies.
- On the revenue side, government financing can be achieved by taxes, debts (government borrowing), asset sales, earnings made by public enterprises, seigniorage, and/or other means. How a government chooses to finance its activities must have effects on the distribution of income, wealth, and/or consumption, and on the efficiency of markets. The main theme of this course on the revenue side is taxation. The issue of how taxes affect income and wealth distribution is the focus of tax incidence studies; the issue of how taxes affect efficiency performance is the focus of efficient taxation studies. In addition, revenue side studies also analyze the effects of various types of taxes and types of borrowing as well as administrative concerns, such as tax evasion and enforcement.
In addition to the term "public finance", a broader term—public economics—and a narrower term—government finance—are also used often. As a late comer, the public choice school to public finance becomes somewhat popular from the 80's. It seeks to explain how self-interested voters, politicians, and bureaucrats actually operate, rather than how they should operate.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備人文社會科學基礎與專業知能(Have a foundation of humanities and social sciences and professional knowledge)
  * B. 具備獨立思考與研究能力 (Possess independent thinking and research capabilities)
  * C. 具備反省、批判、溝通之能力 (Ability to reflect, criticize and communicate)
  * D. 具備發現、分析、解決問題之能力 (Ability to discover, analyze and solve problems)
  * E. 具備人文社會關懷與民主法治素養 (Possess the ability to use social care, democracy, and the rule of law in the humanities)
  * F. 增進社會參與及社會服務之實踐能力 (Improve the practical ability of social participation and service)
  * G. 具備領導能力與團隊精神 (Have leadership skills and team spirit)
  * H. 提升國際視野與外語能力 (Improve international perspective and foreign language ability)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The purpose of this course is to provide you with a theoretical framework in the discipline of public finance. My objectives are to stimulate thinking based on the framework, and to prepare you for continuing your pursuit in the field of public finance.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
There are 9 (T1–9) lecture topics in the fall semester, except the first two, each lecture takes about two weeks: 
T1 (1W) Course Introduction: lecture notes
T2 (1W) More Introduction and Background: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T3 (2W) Public Goods: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T4 (2W) Externalities: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T5 (1-2W) Political Economy: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T6 (1-2W) Cost Benefit Analysis: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T7 (2W) The Health Care Market: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T8 (1-2W) Social Security: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T9 (1-2W) Income Redistribution: Conceptual Issues
Except T1, there are homeworks at the end of each lecture. The midterm exam and the final exam will be scheduled according to the school calendar.  

There are also 9 (T1–9) lecture topics in the spring semester, except T1 and T5, each lecture takes about two weeks:
T1 (1W) Course Introduction: lecture notes
T2 (2W) Taxation and Distribution: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T3 (2W) Taxation and Efficiency: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T4 (2W) Efficiency and Equitable Taxation: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T5 (1W) An Introduction to the Tax System: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T6 (2W) Personal Income Tax: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T7 (1-2W) Personal Taxation and Behavior: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T8 (1-2W) Corporate Income Tax: lecture notes and textbook chapters
T9 (1-2W) Fundamental Tax Reform: lecture notes and textbook chapters
Except T1 and T10, there are homeworks at the end of each lecture. The midterm exam and the final exam will be scheduled according to the school calendar.
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_70%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others: There are weekly TA sessions. 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
I will push you hard on this course, and you should work hard. Tentatively, your final score will be based on the following:
∙ Exams (75%): There will be one mid-term exam and one final exam. The mid-term exam counts for 35% of your final score, and the final exam counts for 40%.  
∙ Homework (20%): Problem sets will be assigned after we finish each topic. The only real way to learn theory is to struggle with solving problems so I strongly encourage you to do the problem sets yourself. You should consider problem sets as a self-checking device to make sure that things are "on the track".  
∙ Other (5%): By behaving responsibly, you will receive full credits from this part. I may take credits away individually based on my perception of your being irresponsible to your duty as an enrolled student of this course.  
∙ Attendance: This course is intensive and demanding. Without attending the class, it is difficult to keep up with the pace and to learn the materials all by yourself. I strongly recommend you to attend each lecture ON TIME!  
∙ TA sessions: It took a lot of effort to add a TA session to this course. I cannot over emphaize the importance of attending weekly TA meetings, in particular, to those of you who are aiming at getting great scores at the end of the semester.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
For my purposes, I need to build up a systematic introduction to this subject. In the past, I have been using the celebrated public finance textbook by Harvey S. Rosen and Ted Gayer (see References Section). Nevertheless, as good as a good public finance textbook it is, Rosen and Gayer (2014) is somewhat "outdated"; some tables and charts are no longer "timely and relevant". After contacting the publisher for revision information, I was told that there are no plan whatsoever with respect to updating Rosen and Gayer (2014). There is another recommended textbook published more recently by David N Hyman, Public Finance: A Contemporary Application of Theory to Policy, 12/E, 2021 (ISBN: 978-0357442159). Both Rosen and Gayer (2014) and Hyman (2021) are popular. You are couraged to discuss with your seniors who have taken this course whether you should purchase a textbook.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
http://www4.nccu.edu.tw/~joe/
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/07/08 syllabus_pf_20250707_compressed.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Instructor Office Hours: 12:30–14:00, Monday
270943, South Wing, General Building of Colleges
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
