國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：經濟學
#####  Course Name: Economics
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000219111 Course No.000219111


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_100_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：經濟系 Course Department:Economics 
  * 授課老師：彭喜樞 Instructor: PENG SHI SHU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This is an introductory course in the principles of economic behaviors and decisions, as well as the analytical methods for studying economic issues.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備人文社會科學基礎與專業知能(Have a foundation of humanities and social sciences and professional knowledge)
  * B. 具備獨立思考與研究能力 (Possess independent thinking and research capabilities)
  * C. 具備反省、批判、溝通之能力 (Ability to reflect, criticize and communicate)
  * D. 具備發現、分析、解決問題之能力 (Ability to discover, analyze and solve problems)
  * E. 具備人文社會關懷與民主法治素養 (Possess the ability to use social care, democracy, and the rule of law in the humanities)
  * F. 增進社會參與及社會服務之實踐能力 (Improve the practical ability of social participation and service)
  * G. 具備領導能力與團隊精神 (Have leadership skills and team spirit)
  * H. 提升國際視野與外語能力 (Improve international perspective and foreign language ability)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course contains two parts: microeconomics and macroeconomics. In microeconomics, this course focuses on the behaviors of consumers and firms, including the topics of market structure, factor market, income distribution, market failure and government intervention, public choice, among others. In macroeconomics, this course offers a fundamental framework in analyzing macroeconomic issues and policies, focusing mainly on the measurement of GDP, inflation and unemployment, aggregate demand and supply, monetary policy, and fiscal policy. This course aims to develop for the freshman students the basic knowledge in economics, and lay the foundation for their further studies in other related fields in economics.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  Introduction |  Introduction to the class;  
Chapter1, What is Economics? |  Teaching |  3 |  4.5  
2 |  Introduction How Markets Work | Chapter 2, The Economic Problem; |  Teaching |  3 |  4.5  
3 |  How Markets Work | Chapter 3, Demand and Supply;  
Chapter 4, Elasticity; |  Teaching |  3 |  4.5  
4 |  How Markets Work |  Chapter 4, Elasticity;  
Chapter 5, Efficiency and Equity;  
**Problem Set #1 (Chapters 1-4);** |  Teaching |  3 |  4.5  
5 |  How Markets Work | Chapter 6, Government Actions in Markets;  
**Quiz #1 (Chapters 1-5);** |  Teaching and Quiz |  3 |  9  
6 |  How Markets Work | Chapter 6, Government Actions in Markets;  
Chapter 7, Global Markets in Action;  
**Problem Set #2 (Chapters 5-7);** |  Teaching |  3 |  4.5  
7 | How Markets Work  
Households’ Choices | Chapter 7, Global Markets in Action;  
Chapter 8, Utility and Demand; | Teaching |  3 |  4.5  
8 | Test | **Midterm (Chapters 1-7);** |  Test |  3 |  9  
9 |  Households’ Choices | Chapter 8, Utility and Demand;  
Chapter 9, Possibilities, preferences and Choices; |  TeachingTest |  3 |  4.5  
10 | Households’ Choices | Chapter 9, Possibilities, preferences and Choices; |  Teaching |  3 |  4.5  
11 |  Firms and Markets | Chapter 10, Organizing Production;  
**Problem Set #3 (Chapters 8-10);** |  Teaching |  3 |  4.5  
12 |  Firms and Markets | Chapter 11, Output and Costs; |  Teaching |  3 |  4.5  
13 | Firms and Markets | Chapter 12, Perfect Competition;  
**Quiz #2 (Chapters 8-11);** |  Teaching and Quiz |  3 |  9  
14 |  Firms and Markets | Chapter 13, Monopoly; |  Teaching |  3 |  4.5  
15 |  Firms and Markets | Chapter 13, Monopoly;  
Chapter 14, Monopoly Competition; |  Teaching |  3 |  4.5  
16 |  Firms and Markets | **Final Exam (Chapters 8-14)** |  Test |  3 |  9  
註：上課進度為期初規劃，若有更動會隨時在Moodle上更新，請以Moodle上的版本為準。
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_90%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**GRADING:**  
There are four graded assignments during the semester with the following weights.  
Class Participation: 10%  
Problem Sets: 10%  
Quiz #1: 10%  
Quiz #2: 10%  
Midterm: 30%.  
Any request of absence for the midterm must be submitted in writing before 9:00am on the exam day, except for medical emergencies.  
Final: 30%. Any request of absence must be filed according to university rules.
Grading disputes may arise. With the exception of arithmetic errors, and in order to avoid problems associated with self-selection, disputes involving points scored on individual questions will NOT be considered. However, if you wish, the entire assignment will be re-graded. This re-grading may result in either a higher or lower number of points being scored.  
Requests for re-grading must be submitted in writing to the instructor within one week of the assignment first being returned.
**PROBLEM SETS**  
There are problem sets basically every two weeks. Problem sets MUST be word-processed although you may do graphs and equations by hand. Problem sets MUST have your name (last name first) and SID number in the upper right-hand corner. Problem sets are due at the beginning of class on the assignment due date. Faxed or e-mailed problem sets will NOT be accepted; late problem sets will NOT be accepted. If you want to turn your problem sets in early, you can make arrangements with me or the TA.
Although you may work on problem sets with your classmates, the written answers which you hand in are expected to be your own effort. In general, you should use study groups to figure out how to solve a problem, to make sure you have made your calculations correctly, and to discuss the answers to questions that ask you to summarize or draw conclusions from the exercise. On your own, you should write up your answers, making sure you understand yourself how to solve the problem step-by-step, and answering non-quantitative questions in your own words.
Solving the problem sets in this way is important not only for the sake of academic integrity but because the primary value of the problem sets is not in counting toward your course grade but in building your own understanding and ability to solve problems. Using the Internet and/or “test banks” deserve special mention. The general principle governing collaborative work is that it is truly collaborative: namely, it is work shared by a group of people, all of whom are learning from the experience. Copying from someone, looking for answers or hints on the Internet, or looking at problem set or exam solutions from previous semesters are not collaborative. There is a difference between being interested in an issue raised by a problem set and using the Internet to learn more about it, and searching the Internet to figure out how to solve the problem.  

##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
TEXTS:  
Michael Parkin,  
Economics, 12th, 13th, or 14th edition  
Pearson Education, Inc., 2016, 2019, or 2022  
(雙葉書廊有限公司代理)  
按：目前市面上販售的版本為第14版（2022年8月起）。本課程基本上按照第12版進行，乃因12至14版之間絕大多數內容相同。若有相異處，以上課的講義為主。
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:作業允許同學善用生成式 AI 作為「輔助工具」，但同學必須主動標註使用情形與自行負責內容正確性。課堂小考、期中期末考採取「閉書及禁止使用任何 AI / 網路工具」 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office Hour: Monday 1-3p.m., Room 51533, General Building of Colleges, South Wing (綜合院館南棟15樓33研究室)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TA: TBA  
TA Class: TBA  

Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
