國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：統計學（一）
#####  Course Name: Statistics(I)
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000359091 Course No.000359091


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_90_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：統計系 Course Department:Statistics 
  * 授課老師：蔡紋琦 Instructor: TSAI WEN-CHI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This is a one-year course.  
Topics for the first semester include Descriptive Statistics, Discrete Probability Distributions, Continuous Probability Distributions, Sampling Methods, Estimation and Confidence Intervals, and One-Sample and Two-Sample Tests of Hypothesis.  
Topics for the second semester include Analysis of Variance, Linear Regression, Time Series and Forecasting, Nonparametric Methods, Statistical Quality Control, and Decision Theory.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
After the one year study, students are expected to have the fundamental ability in describing simple data set, making inference via basic statistical methodologies, being able to pursue advanced concepts of Statistics.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Lectures are arranged based on the order of topics given in the course-introduction column.   
Weekly assignments will be given at each lecture. 
Tentative schedule for first semester is shown below.  
Week 01: What Is Statistics (Chapter 01)  
Week 02: Describing Data (Chapter 02)  
Week 03: Measures of Central Tendency (Chapter 03 & 04)   
Week 04: Measures of Dispersion (Chapter 03 & 04)   
Week 05: Introductory Probability (Chapter 05)  
Week 06: Discrete Probability (I)(Chapter 06)  
Week 07: Discrete Probability (II) & Continuous Probability (I) (Chapter 06 & 07)   
Week 08: Continuous Probability (II) (Chapter 07)  
Week 09: Midterm Exam (Chapter 01 - 07)   
Week 10: Sampling Methods (Chapter 08)   
Week 11: Estimation & Confidence Intervals (I) (Chapter 09)   
Week 12: Confidence Intervals (II) & One-Sample Tests of Hypothesis (I) (Chapter 09 & 10)   
Week 13: One-Sample Tests of Hypothesis (II) (Chapter 10)   
Week 14: Two-Sample Tests of Hypothesis (Chapter 11)   
Week 15: Review (Chapter 08 - 11)   
Week 16: Final Exam (Chapter 08 - 11) 
Tentative schedule for second semester is listed as follows.  
Week 01: ANOVA (I) (Chapter 12)   
Week 02: ANOVA (II) (Chapter 12)   
Week 03: ANOVA (III) (Chapter 12)   
Week 04: Simple Linear Regression (I) (Chapter 13)   
Week 05: Simple Linear Regression (II) (Chapter 13)   
Week 06: Holiday  
Week 07: Simple Linear Regression (III) & Multiple Regression (I) (Chapter 13 & 14)  
Week 08: Multiple Regression (II) (Chapter 14)  
Week 09: Midterm Exam (Chapter 12 - 14)  
Week 10: Nonparametric Statistics - Chi-Square Goodness-of-Fit Tests (Chapter 15)  
Week 11: Nonparametric Statistics - Sign Test (Chapter 16)  
Week 12: Nonparametric Statistics - Analysis of Ranked Data (Chapter 16)  
Week 13: Time Series and Forecasting (Chapter 18)  
Week 14: Statistical Quality Control (Chapter 19)  
Week 15: Decision Theory (Chapter 20)  
Week 16: Final Exam (Chapter 15 - 20)
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_100%_
####  講述 Lecture
_0%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
For 1st semester:  
There will be weekly homework due one week later after it is given.  
One midterm examination (Chapter 01-07) and one final examination (Chapter 08-11) will be scheduled.  
The grade is based on the performance of the homework and the two examinations (25% homework + 35% midterm exam + 40% final exam).
For 2nd semester:  
There will be weekly homework due one week later after it is given.  
One midterm examination (Chapter 12-XX) and one final examination (Chapter XX-XX) will be scheduled.  
The grade is based on the performance of the homework and the two examinations (25% homework + 40% midterm exam + 35% final exam).  

##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
1. Textbook: Statistical Techniques in Business and Economics/_**17th Edition (2018)**_.  
by Douglas Lind, William Marchal, and Samuel Wathen  
2. Reference: Statistics : Concepts and Controversies by David S. Moore.  
3. Reference: Introduction to Statistical Theory by Paul G. Hole, Sidney C. Port, and Charles J. Stone.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Time: Thursday noon-1pm  
Location: 26903 (Commerce Building, Department of Statistics)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TA will be announced in class. TA will grade weekly homework and help students to solve problems during the office hours.
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
