國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：財務管理
#####  Course Name: Financial Management
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000347051 Course No.000347051


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_70_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：財管系 Course Department:Finance 
  * 授課老師：邱健嘉 Instructor: CHIOU JIAN-JIA 
  * 先修科目：[ 經濟學(全學年)(修習且及格)] 及 [ 初級會計學（一）(單學期)(修習且及格)] 及 [ 初級會計學（二）(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([] AND [] AND [])
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This introductory course, Financial Management, is designed to provide undergraduate students with a fundamental understanding of corporate finance, including principles and practices.
Throughout the semester, students will explore key concepts such as financial analysis, planning, and decision-making. The course will cover fundamental topics including the time value of money, risk and return, capital budgeting, financial markets and institutions, and the role of financial managers in corporate settings.
By the end of this course, students are expected have a solid understanding of basic financial management concepts, enabling them to analyze financial statements, understand investment principles, and appreciate the complexities of financial decision-making in the corporate world.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of this course, students will be able to:
  1. **Understand Core Financial Principles:** Explain the fundamental concepts of financial management, including the time value of money, risk-return tradeoff, and cost of capital.
  2. **Analyze Financial Statements:** Interpret and evaluate financial statements to assess a firm’s performance, profitability, liquidity, and solvency.
  3. **Apply Capital Budgeting Techniques:** Use tools such as Net Present Value (NPV), Internal Rate of Return (IRR), and Payback Period to evaluate investment opportunities.
  4. **Assess Capital Structure and Financing Decisions:** Understand the trade-offs between debt and equity financing, and evaluate the impact of capital structure on firm value.
  5. **Communicate Financial Analysis Effectively:** Present financial data and investment recommendations in a clear, concise, and professional manner, both in writing and orally.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
## Course Schedule
This schedule is tentative and subject to changes.
Week |  Date |  Content |  Topic |  Activity  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  Sep 3 |  Introduction |  Chapter 2 |  Add/Drop  
2 |  Sep 10 |  Financial statement analysis |  Chapters 3/4 |   
3 |  Sep 17 |  Time value of money |  Chapter 5 |   
4 |  Sep 24 |  Discounted cash flow valuation |  Chapter 6 |   
5 |  Oct 1 |  Interest rates |  Chapter 7 |   
6 |  Oct 8 |  Bond valuation |  Chapter 7 |  Problem Set 1 out  
7 |  Oct 15 |  Stock valuation |  Chapter 8 |  Problem Set 1 due  
8 |  Oct 22 |  Stock valuation |  Chapter 8 |  Problem Set 2 out **Proposal presentation**  
9 |  Oct 29 |  Risk and return |  Chapter 12 |  Problem Set 2 due  
10 |  Nov 5 |  Risk and return |  Chapter 13 |  **Mid-term Exam**  
11 |  Nov 12 |  NPV & other investment criteria |  Chapter 9 |   
12 |  Nov 19 |  Leave of absence |  _**No class**_ |   
13 |  Nov 26 |  NPV & other investment criteria |  Chapter 9 |   
14 |  Dec 3 |  Cost of capital |  Chapter 14 |  Problem Set 3 out  
15 |  Dec 10 |  Capital structure |  Chapter 16 |  Problem Set 3 due  
16 |  Dec 17 |  **Group presentation** |  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Participation |  10%  
---|---  
Problem Sets |  20%  
Mid-term Exam |  30%  
Group Project and Presentation |  40%  
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
### **Textbook**
Required material is "_Fundamentals of Corporate Finance_ ," by Stephen A. Ross, Randolph W. Westerfield, and Bradford D. Jordan. 13th edition, 2022.
The quiz and the final exam will be mainly covered by lecture notes. Earlier editions of the textbook are also available but not encouraged.
**Reference Book** : “Fundamentals of Corporate Finance,” by Berk, DeMarzo, and Harford. 5th edition.
**Lecture Notes** : Available on Moodle during the term. Please do not circulate.
**Financial Calculator (optional)** : Texas Instruments BAII Plus (recommended) or Casio FX-991ES plus or financial models (e.g., FC-100V).
**Cheat Sheet** : You may have one sheet page during the quiz and final exam. Textbooks and other materials are not allowed to bring with you.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/07/23 Syllabus_FM_2025Fall.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office: Commerce Building 261233
Office hours: Thursday 14:00 - 16:00 or by appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
