國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：統計學（一）
#####  Course Name: Statistics(I)
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000359201 Course No.000359201


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_100_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：統計系 Course Department:Statistics 
  * 授課老師：戴以誠 Instructor: TAI YI-CHENG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course offers an introduction to statistics for undergraduate students with no prior background in the subject. As a foundational discipline in data science, statistics equips students with the essential tools and language needed to analyze data and communicate effectively with professionals in related fields. Statistics is about summarizing, interpreting, and making predictions about real-world phenomena through data.
In today’s data-rich world, the volume and frequency of data collection are rapidly increasing due to technological advancements. This course introduces students to fundamental statistical concepts. Topics covered in the first semester include descriptive statistics, classical probability, random sampling, point estimation, confidence intervals, and one-sample hypothesis testing.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of this course, students will be able to:
  1. Understand the role of statistics in scientific reasoning and data analysis, and explain key concepts such as populations, samples, random variables, probability distributions and parameters.
  2. Summarize and visualize data using descriptive statistics, including measures of central tendency, variability, tables, and graphical displays.
  3. Understand the principles of statistical sampling and estimation, including the concept of a sampling distribution, point estimation, and construction of confidence intervals.
  4. Formulate and evaluate statistical hypotheses using one-sample tests (e.g., z-tests and t-tests), and interpret results in context.
  5. Communicate statistical findings effectively, recognize limitations of statistical methods, and critically evaluate statistical claims in everyday life.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** **Date** |  **Topic** |  **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 09/04 |  Introduction to Statistics |  Chapter 1 |  Lecture  
2 09/11 |  Describing Data: Frequency Tables, Frequency Distributions, and Graphical Presentation |  Chapter 2 |  Lecture Homework 1  
3 09/18 |  Describing Data: Numerical Measures, Displaying and Exploring Data |  Chapter 3 Chapter 4 |  Lecture Homework 2  
4 09/25 |  A Survey of Probability Concepts |  Chapter 5 |  Lecture  
5 10/02 |  A Survey of Probability Concepts |  Chapter 5 |  Lecture Homework 3  
6 10/09 |  Discrete Probability Distributions |  Chapter 6 |  Lecture  
7 10/16 |  Discrete Probability Distributions |  Chapter 6 |  Lecture Homework 4  
8 10/23 |  Midterm Exam |  |   
9 10/30 |  Continuous Probability Distriburions |  Chapter 7 |  Lecture  
10 11/06 |  Continuous Probability Distriburions |  Chapter 7 |  Lecture Homework 5  
11 11/13 |  Sampling, Sampling Methods and the Central Limit Theorem |  Chapter 8 |  Lecture Homework 6  
12 11/20 |  Estimation and Confidence Intervals |  Chapter 9 |  Lecture  
13 11/27 |  Estimation and Confidence Intervals |  Chapter 9 |  Lecture Homework 7  
14 12/04 |  One-Sample Tests of Hypothesis |  Chapter 10 |  Lecture  
15 12/11 |  One-Sample Tests of Hypothesis |  Chapter 10 |  Lecture Homework 8  
16 12/18 |  Final Exam |  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_90%_
####  講述 Lecture
_0%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Midterm 35%
Final 35%
Homework 30%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Statistical Techniques in Business and Economics, (19th ed. McGraw Hill), by Douglas A. Lind, William G. Marchal, and Samuel A. Wathen
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
TBA
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
