國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：初級會計學（一）
#####  Course Name: Fundamental Accounting (I)
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000314101 Course No.000314101


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_93_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：會計系 Course Department:Accounting 
  * 授課老師：潘健民 Instructor: PAN CHIEN-MIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三EFG Session: wed18-21


##  課程簡介Course Description
本課程灌檔金融系一年級，其餘名額皆為自由選課．本課程使用之教室容量與本課程名額上限同為93人，無法規劃加簽．請勿來信詢問加簽相關事宜，相關信件不予回應．有必修需求的同學，請向所屬系所尋求協助．
August 14, 2025
This course is the first course in a two-semester sequence of Introductory Level Financial Accounting. This course is designed to enhance students' understanding of the financial reporting processes. The focus of the course is on fundamental accounting concepts and principles. The course shows students how the economic transactions of a firm are prepared and reported in the financial statements and related disclosures. The objective of the course is to provide students with basic skills to prepare, read, and use financial statements. This course also aims to further prepare students for more advanced financial accounting courses as well as to help students become both sophisticated preparers and users of financial accounting information.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is designed to provide you with an in-depth understanding of the subject covered by the materials: fundamental financial accounting. The nature of this course is demanding and challenging. It is time-consuming for a college freshman to master the subject while trying to get used to the newly-started college life at the same time. To succeed, you need to devote serious efforts outside of class. Come to each class prepared. 
The course materials are presented through a mix of class lectures, assigned readings, and problems. You should maximize your understanding of the materials by attending and participating in class lectures and discussions. To be successful, you are expected to do the following: 
  1. read the assigned readings and be prepared before you come to the class. 
  2. arrive on time. 
  3. be actively involved in class by asking questions and participating in discussions. 
  4. review the assigned readings and attempt all homework problems after the class. 


After you have done everything you are expected to do, if you still have difficulties with the materials after we discuss in class, my office hours are available for you.
**Important Notes and Policies**
  1. Exams must be taken as scheduled. No makeup exam will be given under any circumstances. 
  2. Leaving classroom without permission during the exam will be penalized.
  3. Proper classroom manners at all times is expected. 
  4. Turn off your cell-phone during the class session. 


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student Workload Expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  Sep 3 / Introduction / Chapter 1 – Accounting Information: Users and Uses |  Chapter 1 |  Chapter 1 |  3 |  6  
2 |  Sep 10 / Chapter 2 – Financial Statements: An Overview |  Chapter 2 |  Chapter 2 |  3 |  6  
3 |  Sep 17 / Chapter 2 – Financial Statements: An Overview |  Chapter 2 |  Chapter 2 |  3 |  6  
4 |  Sep 24 / Chapter 3 – The Accounting Cycle: The Mechanics of Accounting |  Chapter 3 |  Chapter 3 |  3 |  6  
5 |  **Oct 1 / Mid-term Exam1** |  |  **HW1 Due** |  |   
6 |  Oct 8 / Chapter 4 – Completing the Accounting Cycle |  Chapter 4 |  Chapter 4 |  3 |  6  
7 |  Oct 15 / Chapter 4 – Completing the Accounting Cycle |  Chapter 4 |  Chapter 4 |  3 |  6  
8 |  Oct 22 / Chapter 8 – Inventory and the Cost of Sales |  Chapter 8 |  Chapter 8 |  3 |  6  
9 |  Oct 29 / Chapter 8 – Inventory and the Cost of Sales |  Chapter 8 |  Chapter 8 |  3 |  6  
10 |  **Nov 5 / Mid-term Exam 2** |  |  **HW2 Due** |  |   
11 |  Nov 12 / Chapter 5 – Internal Controls: Ensuring the Integrity of Financial Information |  Chapter 5 |  Chapter 5 |  3 |  6  
12 |  Nov 19 / Chapter 6 – Cash |  Chapter 6 |  Chapter 6 |  3 |  6  
13 |  Nov 26 / Chapter 7 – Receivables |  Chapter 7 |  Chapter 7 |  3 |  6  
14 |  Dec 3 / Chapter 10 - Property, Plant, and Equipment |  Chapter 10 |  Chapter 10 |  3 |  6  
15 |  **Dec 13 /****Unification Exam** |  |  **TP Due** |  |   
16 |  Dec 17 / Review Session |  |  |  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_100%_
####  講述 Lecture
_0%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Grading policies**
**1. Paper Exams:**
Three exams will be administered in this course. Your highest score among three exams will be 50% of your term grade. The second and third highest scores will be 30% and 20%, respectively.
**2. Homework and Term Project:**
Two homework assignments (at least) and a term project will be assigned during this course. Failure to submit a homework assignment will result a 25% deduction from your final grade. Failure to submit the term project will result a 50% reduction from your final grade. 
**3. Calculation of Final Grade**
(Exam with highest score * 50% + Exam with second highest score * 30% + Exam with least score * 20%) * (Submission of the first homework * 25% + Submission of the second homework * 25% + Submission of the term project * 50%)
I expect you to come to each class meeting, but I will not take attendance on a regular basis. However, I will randomly take attendance just to get to know who is taking the course and the randomly taken attendance will be a reference to tell me who comes to class meetings and who does not. Your term grade will be based on the exams. Exams will be administered on scheduled dates.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
(1) Required Texts:
Financial Accounting: IFRS Edition, 4th Edition (2025) by James D. Stice, Earl K. Stice, W. Steve Albrecht, Monte R. Swain, Rong-ruey Duh, and Audrey Wen-hsin Hsu (Cengage Learning, ISBN-13: 9789815244847 | eISBN: 9819815244830) 
(2) Supplementary Material: 
林蕙真、李宗黎「會計學新論（上‧下）第十二版」, 2023  
杜榮瑞、薛富井、蔡彥卿、林修葳「會計學 第八版 修訂版 IFRS」, 2022
鄭丁旺、汪泱若、黃金發「會計學原理與應用（上‧下）第十五版」, 2020.
(3) Calculator: 
A calculator for homework and exams is required. 
(You do not need a fancy one. A NT$100 calculator will do the job for you. No financial calculator!)
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/08/12 2025 Autumn Pan Undergraduate Fundamental Accounting I.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
否  No
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Instructor: Chien-min Kevin Pan 潘健民
(1) Office: 商館261018
(2) E-mail: kevinp@nccu.edu.tw
(3) Class Hours: Wednesday 18:00-21:00
(4) Office Hours: Thursday Morning 07:30-09:00 or by appointment.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Teaching Assistant:
1. Administering exams and tutoring sessions
2. Tutoring sessions: TBA 
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
