國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：初級會計學（一）
#####  Course Name: Fundamental Accounting (I)
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000314031 Course No.000314031


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_60_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：會計系 Course Department:Accounting 
  * 授課老師：陳宇紳 Instructor: CHEN YU SHEN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一D56 Session: mon13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to provide a basic understanding of financial accounting and covers various financial accounting topics, including basic accounting theory, accounting principles, procedures to record business transactions, measurements of assets and liabilities and preparations for financial statements. More importantly, students will learn how accounting information assists financial statement users in facilitating their decision making.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Accounting is the language of business, facilitating communication of the financial aspects of business. This module provides an introduction to the financial accounting branch of accounting. The activities and events of a business entity are summarized by the financial accounting process into published financial statements to be used by external users such as investors and creditors. Such users would need to understand both the financial accounting process and its outputs in order to make investing or lending decisions. Therefore, students will learn how to prepare simple financial statements and also learn how to read, understand and use published financial statements for decision-making. Published financial statements of listed companies will be used as examples.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**_Week_** |  **_Lecture Date_** |  **_Chapter_** |  **_Topics & Readings_** |  **_Practice Questions_**  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  09/01 |  - |  Introduction |   
2 |  09/08 |  Ch 1 |  Accounting in Action  |   
3 |  09/15 |  Ch 2 |  The Recording Process (I) |   
4 |  09/22 |  Ch 2 |  The Recording Process (II) |   
**5** |  **09/29** |  |  **Public Holiday** |   
**6** |  **10/06** |  |  **Public Holiday** |   
**7** |  10/13 |  Ch 3 |  Adjusting the Accounts (I) |   
8 |  10/20 |  Ch 3 & Ch 4 |  Adjusting the Accounts (II) & Completing the Accounting Cycle |   
9 |  10/27 |  Ch 5 |  Merchandising Operations  |   
**10** |  **11/03** |  |  **Mid-term Exam** |   
11 |  11/10 |  Ch 6 |  Inventories (I) |   
12 |  11/17 |  Ch 6 |  Inventories (II) |   
13 |  11/24 |  Ch 7  & Ch 8 |  Fraud, Internal Control and Cash & Accounting for Receivables (I) |   
14 |  12/01 |  Ch 8 |  Accounting for Receivables (II) |   
15 |  12/08 |  Ch 9 |  Plant Assets |   
**16** |  **12/15** |  |  **Final Exam** |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_70%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_10%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
## Grading
Final grade will be based upon the following distribution:
|  **%** |  **Note**  
---|---|---  
Mid-term exam  |  30% |  (A)  
Final Exam |  30% |  (A)  
Quizzes |  20% |  (B)  
Cases |  10% |  (C)  
Class participation |  10% |  (D)  
Total |  100% |   
## (A) Exams
  *     * There will be one mid-term exam and one final exam over the course of the semester. All exams are closed-book/notes.
    * Exams will cover reading assignments and lectures given. The course is cumulative in nature; each unit lays the foundation for the next.
    * The comprehensive final exam will be given on the University-designated exam week. The exam will cover all course material from beginning to end.
    * Refer to the lecture schedule table on _Page 5_ for the exam dates.
    * Reviewing exam papers:
      * Total score for each of the exams will be posted in iNCCU.
      * Exams may be handed back for review. However, we do not allow exams to leave the classroom under any circumstance. The lecturer will retain possession of all exams. If students wish to spend more time looking at the exam beyond the class time, they can meet with the lecturer or teaching assistant, one-on-one supervised, during office hours to review their work.
      * Students should discuss any grading errors with the lecturer within a week from the date they review the exam/homework in order to receive all of the points they have earned.


  *     * **NO MAKE-UP EXAMS**. Missed tests will count as zero unless absence is authorized in advance by the lecturer. Make-up exam may be arranged for just cause. Please refer to below the section of Leave Policy for details.


  *     * Exam Policies:
      * Permitted items are strictly limited to two: (1) pencil/pen and (2) basic 4-function calculator, with no lids/covers. Pencils and calculators may not be shared, and won’t be provided.
      * Switch off the mobile phone or switch it to silence mode during the exam
      * Students are strictly prohibited from talking or having any form of communication during the exam
      * Students will not be allowed to enter the examination hall or take the exam if they arrive more than 15 minutes after the examination has started


## (B) Quizzes
Quizzes will be given during the semester to help students keep up with their readings. Refer to the lecture schedule table on _Page 5_ for the quiz dates. No make-up arrangement will be made for quiz.
## (C) Cases
There are two cases to be submitted. More details will be provided in class or tutorial.
## (D) Class participation
Class participation is assessed based on the student’s attendance and class participation during lectures. Note that mere attendance at lectures is NOT
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
## Prescribed Textbook
Weygandt & Kimmel (with Nai-Hui Su), Financial Accounting with IFRS, 5th Wiley Custom Edition. 
ISBN: 978-1-394-194766
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Students are expected to visit the Moodle system (http://moodle.nccu.edu.tw/) regularly, preferably everyday if possible. Announcements, lecture slides, answers for practice questions will be posted on the website.
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/07/05 2025_Sem1_Monday_ACC_syllabus_web.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
**Office:** 261120 (商學院大樓1120)
**Email:** vyschen@nccu.edu.tw
**Phone:** (02) 2939-3091 ext 81120
**Office hour:** By appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
