國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：投資學 
#####  Course Name: Investments
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000351041 Course No.000351041


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_60_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：財管系 Course Department:Finance 
  * 授課老師：謝沛霖 Instructor: HSIEH PEI-LIN 
  * 先修科目：[ 經濟學(全學年)(修習且及格)] 及 [ 初級會計學（一）(單學期)(修習且及格)] 及 [ 初級會計學（二）(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([] AND [] AND [])
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is an introductory investment class designed for undergraduate students, providing a foundation for advanced courses in investments, portfolio management, asset pricing, and derivatives. The course focuses on the fundamentals of investments, balancing both theoretical and practical aspects. Key topics covered include: Financial markets (basic concepts), Portfolio theory and Asset allocation, Asset pricing models, Portfolio performance evaluation, Efficient market hypothesis,Pricing and management of equity, fixed-income securities, equity options, and futures.
Students will also learn essential financial strategies such as diversification, hedging, replication, and arbitrage.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The course will use the textbook "Investments" by Z. Bodie, A. Kane, and A.J. Marcus to teach the following financial and economic professional knowledge:
(1)Financial markets and securities trading
(2)Asset allocation, portfolio analysis, and the Markowitz portfolio selection model
(3)Capital Asset Pricing Model, index models, Arbitrage Pricing Theory, and multi-factor models
(4)Portfolio evaluation methods
(5)Efficient Market Hypothesis and behavioral finance
(6)Equity asset pricing models
(7)Fixed Income
(8)Derivatives markets, futures&options pricing, and risk management
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Topic** |  **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course Introduction, Asset Classes, Financial Markets, Trading Securities, and Risk and Return of Assets |  Introduction Ch. 1、2、3、4 |  Lecture /HW of the textbook will be assigned.  
2 |  |  Middle Moon Festival |   
3 |  Determinants of Investment Decisions, Capital Allocation, Portfolio Analyses, Markowitz Portfolio Selection Model |  Portfolio Analysis and Management Ch. 5、6 |  Lecture /HW of the textbook will be assigned.  
4 |  Determinants of Investment Decisions, Capital Allocation, Portfolio Analyses, Markowitz Portfolio Selection Model |  Portfolio Analysis and Management Ch. 7、8 |  Lecture /HW of the textbook will be assigned.  
5 |  he Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM), Index Models, APT, Multi-factor Models |  Asset Pricing Models Ch. 9, 10 |  Lecture /HW of the textbook will be assigned.  
6 |  The Efficient Market Hypothesis, Behavioral Finance |  The Efficient Market Hypothesis Ch. 11, 12、13 |  Lecture /HW of the textbook will be assigned.  
7 |  Methods for Portfolio Performance Evaluation |  Portfolio Performance Evaluation Ch. 24 |  Lecture /HW of the textbook will be assigned.  
8 |  |  Old Exam Review |   
9 |  |  Mid-term exam |   
10 |  Fixed-Income Securities, Term Structure of Interest Rates, Managing Fixed-Income Portfolios |  Fixed Income Ch.14、15、16 |  Lecture /HW of the textbook will be assigned.  
11 |  Fixed-Income Securities, Term Structure of Interest Rates, Managing Fixed-Income Portfolios |  Fixed Income Ch.14、15、16 |  Lecture /HW of the textbook will be assigned.  
12 |  Equity Valuation Models |  Equity Securities Valuation Ch.18 |  Lecture /HW of the textbook will be assigned.  
13 |  Futures Contracts, Futures Pricing, Risk Management |  Derivatives and Futures Ch.20、22 |  Lecture /HW of the textbook will be assigned.  
14 |  Equity Options Markets, Valuation, and Risk Management |  Option Pricing Ch.20、21 |  Lecture /HW of the textbook will be assigned.  
15 |  |  Review |   
16 |  |  Final Eam |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_90%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Homework assignments 30%, Midterm Exam 30%, Final Exam 30%, and Participation 10%.  
---  
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Investments, Z. Bodie, A. Kane, A.J. Marcus, McGraw Hill Education
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Wednesday Morning 09:00-12:00 Office:1255
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Information will be announced at the first or second week of the semester.
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
