國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：英語語音學 
#####  Course Name: Articulatory Phonetics
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：010082001 Course No.010082001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文系 Course Department:English 
  * 授課老師：陳怡臻 Instructor: CHEN YI-JEN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course provides an introductory exploration of English phonetics, with a primary focus on articulatory phonetics within the General American (GA) accent. Topics covered include phonetic transcription utilizing the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), speech mechanisms, properties and categorizations of English vowels and consonants, sentence stress, rhythmic patterns, and intonation structures.
In addition to theoretical learning from textbooks, the course integrates practical, hands-on activities aimed at refining students' proficiency in the GA accent. Active engagement in assigned readings, class discussions, and timely submission of assignments are expected of students.
This course is intended to serve as a fundamental stepping stone for academic pursuits and professional development in phonetics and related disciplines. By the end of the course, students will have gained foundational knowledge and practical skills applicable to careers in language teaching, speech pathology, linguistic analysis, and related fields. This knowledge can also support the development of accurate pronunciation and articulation in other foreign languages.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 掌握西方文學與文化發展的歷史文化脈絡，以熟悉不同文化觀點(To trace the historical and cultural transformations in Western literature in order to understand different cultural perspectives)
  * B. 具備西方文學與文化研究之相關知能以培養獨立思考與批判之能力(To acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for doing research on Western literature and culture in order to develop independent and critical judgment.)
  * C. 具備語言學的基礎專業知識，以培養觀察分析及推理能力(To acquire a basic knowledge of linguistics in order to foster the ability to make logical conclusions through observation and analysis)
  * D. 具備應用語言學及英語教學的基礎專業知識及實務應用能力 (To acquire knowledge of applied linguistics in order to make practical applications to methods of teaching English.)
  * E. 理解、分析及整合英文訊息並以口說英文充分表達自我與協調溝通 (To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.)
  * F. 解讀、分析及整合英文篇章並書寫不同主題及目的英文文章以表達自我並呈現個人思維邏輯(To understand, analyze, and synthesize articles in English and to write English papers on different topics and for different purposes to fully express oneself and to reason in written English.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course provides students with foundational knowledge in phonetics, with a focus on articulatory phonetics and International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) symbols. Through detailed examination of various aspects of the General American (GA) accent, students will develop proficiency in understanding and producing this accent. Practical training in speaking the GA accent will be facilitated through reading, listening, and speaking exercises. Additionally, students will learn to analyze vowels and consonants using spectrograms.
Four main tasks are designed to asses students' knowledge of English phonetics and to encourage active use of English in class:
1. Quizzes and exams are designed to evaluate students' understanding of English articulation in both segmental and suprasegmental aspects. The segmental aspect includes places and manners of articulation and spectrogram reading, while the suprasegmental aspect focuses on stress assignment and intonation.
2. Weekly reflections encourage students to review key concepts after each class and provide valuable feedback to help the instructor adjust course materials accordingly.
3. The oral presentation trains students to collaborate efficiently in groups, re-organize textbook content logically, and deliver professional presentations in English.
4. Interactive activities through board games help students build confidence in using English communicatively without overemphasizing grammatical perfection. These activities also promote self-reflection on pronunciation, allowing students to identify areas for improvement to enhance clarity in English speaking.
Upon completion of the course, students will be equipped with essential knowledge and skills applicable to teaching, improving pronunciation, and pursuing careers related to phonetics, e.g., speech pathology and linguistic research.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Weeks |  Dates |  Topics |  Notes  
---|---|---|---  
1st |  09/03 |  Introduction to phonetics |  _Add-drop period I (09/01–09/08)_  
2nd |  09/10 |  Speech production |  _Add-drop period II (09/09-09/15)_ **Assigned reading: p. 2-18** Weekly reflection  
3rd |  09/17 |  English consonants |  **Assigned reading: p. 56-59** Oral summary: ______________ Weekly reflection  
4th |  09/24 |  English vowels |  **Assigned reading: p. 85-100** Oral summary: ______________ Weekly reflection  
5th |  10/01 |  Review |   
6th |  10/08 |  Word endings & linking words |  Weekly reflection  
7th |  10/15 |  Phonetic transcriptions |  **Assigned reading: p. 33-48** Weekly reflection  
8th |  10/22 |  **Mid-term exam** |   
9th |  10/29 |  Acoustic phonetics |  **Assigned reading: p. 193-215**  
10th |  11/05  
11th |  11/12 |  Syllable structure & word stress |  **Assigned reading: p. 107-118** Oral summary: ______________ Handout (acoustic phonetics)  
12th |  11/19 |  Sentence rhythm |  **Assigned reading: p. 107-118** Handout (word stress)  
13th |  11/26 |  Pitch and intonation |  **Assigned reading: p. 118-127** Oral summary: ______________ Handout (sentence stress)  
14th |  12/3 |  Review I |  Praat demo: vowel chart  
15th |  12/10 |  Review II |   
16th |  12/17 |  **Final exam** |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_70%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  1. Participation 5%
  2. Quizzes and handout exercises 15%
  3. Mid-term written exam 25%
  4. Final written exam 25%
  5. Oral summary 15%
  6. Weekly reflections 15%


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Ladefoged, Peter, & Johnson, Keith. (2011). _A Course in Phonetics_ (6th ed.). Boston, Mass.: Wadsworth/Cengage Learning.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
N/A
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
