國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：大學英文（一） 
#####  Course Name: College English I
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：032001671 Course No.032001671


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_38_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center 
  * 授課老師：朱容萱 Instructor: CHU RONG-XUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
College English I/II is a two-semester course, designed to help students improve their English language proficiency, be prepared for learning in a higher education environment in English, and develop the ability to engage critically with the world. While it is a four-skills (listening, speaking, reading, writing) integrated course, a particular emphasis will be placed on speaking and writing skills freshman students tend to lack most. All College English I/II courses are conducted in English.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the course, students will have improved their English language proficiency, be better prepared for learning other subjects in EMI (English as a medium of instruction) settings, and acquired familiarity with a selection of issues related to cross-cultural communication.
**_Learning outcomes for speaking_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  * Initiate, continue, and end social and academic conversations
  * Propose/ask questions appropriately and clearly in formal and academic occasions
  * Narrate an event and describe objects
  * Summarize reading and listening content
  * Express opinions regarding reading and listening materials


**_Learning outcomes for writing_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  * Write a formal email in the higher education context
  * Depict an experience and describe objects
  * Describe statistical data and diagrams
  * Write a summary of reading and listening content
  * Write a short composition


**_Learning outcomes related to intercultural awareness_**
By the end of the course, students will have improved their ability to:
  * Analyze cultural differences using relevant intercultural theories
  * Identify potential misunderstandings or conflicts in intercultural situations
  * Gain a better understanding of their own culture


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
The following schedule will be adjusted to accommodate the progress of the class.
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course overview & speaking practice |  Speaking practice: fun facts and pet peeves | 
  * Getting to know each other
  * Group work and pair work
  * Writing exercise: 1st written assignment

  
2 |  Social media |  Reading practice: pros and cons of social media (Textbook pp. 8-11) | 
  * Vocabulary exercises 
  * **Self-study tasks (e.g., recommended additional readings)**

  
3 |  Effective communication |  Listening practice: regurgitating information and facts (Textbook pp. 12-15) | 
  * Listening exercises
  * Grammar points

  
4 |  Cultural sensibility |  Reading practice: cultural differences,  stereotypes and biases (Textbook pp. 16-17) | 
  * Discussion and debate
  * **Self-study tasks (e.g., recommended additional readings)**

  
5 |  Cultural reconciliation |  **Moodle lesson: Videos and articles (Unit 1: Introduction to cross-cultural communication)** | 
  * **Moodle quizzes**
  * Group Work

  
6 |  Current events  |  Reading practice: news articles and reports  (Textbook pp. 18-21) | 
  * **Self-study tasks (e.g., recommended additional online videos)**

  
7 |  Socio-cultural encounters |  Collaborative learning: giving and receiving feedback  (Textbook pp. 22-25) | 
  * **Moodle quizzes**

  
8 |  Social stereotypes of AI-assisted learning |  **Moodle lesson: Videos and articles (Unit 2: Stereotypes)** | 
  * Writing Exercise: 2nd written assignment
  * **Moodle quizzes**
  * **Self-study tasks (e.g., recommended additional readings)**

  
9 |  Mid-term exam |  Exam |  Exam  
10 |  UN’s SDGs - (Goals 11 &12) |  Reading practice: sustainability and responsible consumption and production (Textbook pp. 26-33) | 
  * **Self-study tasks (e.g., additional listening practices)**

  
11 |  Technology and innovation  |  Speaking and writing practice: best invention since sliced bread (Textbook pp. 34-37) | 
  * **Self-study tasks (e.g., recommended additional readings)**
  * **Group Presentation II**

  
12 |  Scientific developments |  **Moodle lesson: Videos and articles (Unit 3: Education)** | 
  * **Moodle quizzes**
  * Writing Exercise: 3rd written assignment

  
13 |  Describing statistical data and diagrams |  Writing exercise: Describing graphs and tables (Textbook pp. 40-46) | 
  * **Self-study tasks (e.g., written responses)**

  
14 |  Problem-based learning  |  Listening and speaking practice: troubleshooting (Textbook pp. 48-53) | 
  * **Self-study tasks (e.g., recommended online videos)**
  * **Group Presentation III**

  
15 |  Review |  Summary of topics covered in the semester | 
  * Vocabulary exercises 
  * Grammar points
  * Listening, reading and writing exercises

  
16 |  Final Exam |  Exam |  Exam  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_25%_
####  講述 Lecture
_35%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class time will be devoted to activities that allow you to practice and interact in English. To successfully complete the course, you must prepare the assigned homework prior to class and, while in class actively participate in class discussions and pair/group work. Your final grades are determined by the following course components:
  * Participation (including attendance, class discussion, in-class tasks and quizzes, and homework): 20%
  * Oral presentations: 20%
  * Written assignments: 20%
  * Midterm and final exams: 40%


**Participation**
Your participation grade will be based on your attendance, homework preparation, and the contribution you make to the learning experience of others. Contribution includes your in-class questions to the instructor, insights and comments regarding class content, answers to the instructor's questions, and reactions to other students' contributions.
**In-class exercises/quizzes**
Periodically throughout the semester, writing/listening exercises and pop quizzes will be given in class. These exercises and quizzes can NOT be made up.
**Oral presentations**
You will give an individual oral report and a group presentation during the semester. For the individual report, you will tell a 3-minute personal anecdote. For the group presentation, you and three other students will report on a current event. The presentation should be approximately 20 minutes, followed by a 5-minute discussion. Each group should meet with the instructor two weeks prior to their presentation to discuss their topic and present their outline.
**Written assignments**
There will be three major written assignments in addition to in-class and take-home writing exercises. In each assignment, you will respond to writing prompts about a cultural issue using the writing skills you learned in class. Your paper should demonstrate that you have thought seriously and critically about the topic and made effective use of the resources provided. You are also encouraged to research the topic and cite your sources. The grading rubric for the written assignments is available on the class website.
**Examinations**
All materials, including the readings, handouts, and information provided in class will potentially be included on mid-term and final exams. The mid-term exam is a written test, and the final exam contains a written test and a speaking test. The written tests include vocabulary/grammar questions, a listening/reading section, and short writing tasks. The speaking test requires you to answer two or more questions, each question for two minutes. The instructor will evaluate your ability to respond to the questions appropriately and to speak for an extended period of time without hesitation, deviation or repetition. The grading rubric for the speaking test is available on the class website. Exams can NOT be made up or rescheduled unless you provide documentation of a true emergency.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Course materials**
Textbook (Perspectives 4) and supplementary readings
**Resources**
VoiceTube: https://tw.voicetube.com
BBC Learning English: http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish
TED talks: https://www.ted.com/talks
LTTC BESTEP: https://bestep.tw/
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Brainstorming Fine-tuning your responses/answers to enhance readability Searching for information on your topic Checking grammar, spelling and punctuation Searching for information Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/06/16 College English Rubrics_Rev..pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office: Research Building 9th Floor (0908)
Prior apointment advised. 
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
