國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：大學英文（一） 
#####  Course Name: College English I
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：032001021 Course No.032001021


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_38_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center 
  * 授課老師：金嘉炘 Instructor: JIN JIA XIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
College English I/II is a two-semester course, designed to help students improve their English language proficiency and develop the ability to engage critically with the world. While it is a four-skills (listening, speaking, reading, writing) integrated course, a particular emphasis will be placed on speaking and writing skills freshman students tend to lack most. All College English I/II courses are conducted in English.  
---  
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the course, students will have improved their English language fluency and achieved a familiarity with a selection of issues related to cross-cultural communication. This is accomplished by providing a variety of authentic media and specific instruction on reading and listening strategies.
**_Learning outcomes for speaking_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  *     * Initiate, continue, and end social conversations
    * Propose/ask questions appropriately and clearly in formal occasions
    * Narrate an event and describe objects
    * Summarize reading and listening content 
    * Express opinions regarding reading and listening materials 



**_Learning outcomes for writing_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  *     * Write a formal email
    * Depict an experience and describe objects
    * Describe statistical data and diagrams 
    * Write a summary of reading and listening content
    * Write a one paragraph composition


**_Learning outcomes related to intercultural awareness_**
By the end of the course, students will have improved their ability to:
  *     * Analyze cultural differences using the cross-cultural theory taught
    * **Cross-cultural understanding:** It refers to the basic ability of people to recognize, interpret and correctly react to people, incidences or situations that are open to misunderstanding due to cultural differences.
    * **Cross-cultural knowledge:** It refers to a surface level familiarization with cultural characteristics, values, beliefs and behaviors.
    * **Cross-cultural awareness:** It develops from cross cultural knowledge as the learner understands and appreciates a culture internally.
    * **Cross-cultural sensitivity:** It refers to an ability to read into situations, contexts and behaviors that are culturally rooted and be able to react to them appropriately.
    * Gain a better understanding of their own culture


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  Course overview & U. 1 |  **U. 1 First Time in Class—cross-cultural communication:** ① small talk ② Mindy’s cross-cultural experience: group discussion + 2 dialogues **homework (role play)** |  1. group discussion 2. homework (role play in next class): write 2 dialogues  |  3 |  4.5  
2 | **The Cultural Iceberg** |  **1. homework role play** **2. The Cultural Iceberg** |  1. review answers 2. group discussion: how to bring items on the subconscious level to the conscious level (body to tip of the iceberg) |  3 |  4.5  
3 |  1. **3 rd Rock S1, Ep 1: Cultural Shock** **2. MOODLE 1—6 Cultural Dimensions** |  1. culture shock 2. MOODLE 1 |  **3 rd Rock S1, Ep 1: Cultural Shock** ① video ② language notes ③ viewing focuses: group discussion ④ share thoughts & reflections **2. MOODLE 1—6 Cultural Dimensions** ① video ② group discussion |  3 |  4.5  
4 |  **1. review MOODLE 1—6 Cultural Dimensions** **2. U. 2 Try Something New for 30 Days** |  **1. review MOODLE 1—6 Cultural Dimensions** **2. U. 2 Try Something New for 30 Days** |  **1. review MOODLE 1—6 Cultural Dimensions** ① group oral report ② **quiz(Zuvio)** **2. U. 2 Try Something New for 30 Days** ① video ② group discussion |  3 |  4.5  
5 |  **1. Analyzing Paragraph-- Try Something New for 30 Days** **2. Summary : ** ① group grade & compare 3 example paragraphs (the Criteria for an Effective summary) ② group oral report |  1. how to write a paragraph 2. how to write a summary |  1. group grade & compare 3 example paragraphs (the Criteria for an Effective summary) 2. group oral report 3. homework: summarize "Try Something New for 30 Days" |  3 |  4.5  
6 |  **1. Effective Paragraph Writing** **2. U. 3** |  **1. Unit 1 Effective Paragraph Writing** **2. U. 3** |  **1. Unit 1 Effective Paragraph Writing:** lecture **2. U. 3** ① group discussion (the Criteria for an Effective Paragraph p. 24): evaluate and revise  ② group oral report |  3 |  4.5  
7 |  **1. watchwellcast : Avoiding the Freshman 15 ** 2. **MOODLE _Unit 2_** |  **1. watchwellcast : Avoiding the Freshman 15 ** 2. **MOODLE 2: Stereotypes** |  **1. watchwellcast : Avoiding the Freshman 15 ** ① video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gnUZ4XNeoJ8&t=48s
# ② group story-telling (paraphrase)
2. **MOODLE 2—Stereotypes** ① video ② group oral report ③ write a stereotype experience |  3 |  4.5  
8 |  **U. 4** **Freshman 15”** |  **U. 4** **Freshman 15:** **1. how to use the "generalization & evidence" pattern** **2. how to write an outline** |  **U. 4** **Freshman 15”** ① group discussion ② group oral report: comprehension-q 8 (illustration) ③ outline "Freshman 15" |  3 |  4.5  
9 | Mid-term exam | exam |  1. paragraph writing 2. 6 cultural dimensions |  3 |  4.5  
10 |  **1. review Unit 1 & 2 topic sentence + organizational patterns ** **2. 3 rd Rock S2, Ep. 10: Gobble, Gobble, Dick, Dic: **celebrating Thanksgiving |  **1. Unit 1 & 2 topic sentence + organizational patterns ** **2. 3 rd Rock S2, Ep. 10: Gobble, Gobble, Dick, Dick: learn about Thanksgiving** |  **1. Unit 1 & 2 topic sentence + organizational patterns ** ① review **2. 3 rd Rock S2, Ep. 10: Gobble, Gobble, Dick, Dick** ① video ② language notes ③ group discussion ④ share thoughts & reflections ⑤ a cross-cultural cultural scenario: celebrating Thanksgiving |  3 |  4.5  
11 | **MOODLE _Unit 3_** | **MOODLE 3: Education Across Cultures** |  **MOODLE 3** ① video  ② Facebook: Kristina Kuzmic: I’m not your friend, kid ③ group oral report |  3 |  4.5  
12 |  **U. 5** |  **U. 5** |  **U. 5** ① read article ② group discussion |  3 |  4.5  
13 |  1. review **U. 5** 2. review **Topic Sentences** & **Organizational patterns** |  1. review **U. 5** 2. review **Topic Sentences** & **Organizational patterns** |  1. **U. 5** ① **quiz** 2. Check answers to **Topic Sentences** & **Organizational patterns** |  3 |  4.5  
14 |  **1. Everything Christmas** **2. 3 rd Rock: S2, Ep. 12 Jolly Old St. Dick** |  **1. Everything Christmas: learn about Christmas** **2. 3 rd Rock: S2, Ep. 12 Jolly Old St. Dick: learn about Christmas** |  **1. Everything Christmas:** cloze game **2. 3 rd Rock: S2, Ep. 12 Jolly Old St. Dick** ① video ② language notes ③ group discussion ④ share thoughts & reflections |  3 |  4.5  
15 |  **1. Unit 5 Gaining Word Power** 2. **U. 6 The Octopus’s Defense Mechanisms** 3. **3 rd Rock: S4, Ep. 9 Happy New Dick** |  **1. Unit 5 Gaining Word Power: how to improve vocabulary skills** 2. **U. 6 The Octopus’s Defense Mechanisms: how to use the "enumeration" pattern** 3. **3 rd Rock: S4, Ep. 9 Happy New Dick: learn about the true meaning of the new year** |  **1. Unit 5 Gaining Word Power:** lecture 2. **U. 6 The Octopus’s Defense Mechanisms** ① read & guess word meaning in context ② group discussion 3. **3 rd Rock: S4, Ep. 9 Happy New Dick** ① video ② language notes ③ group discussion ④ share thoughts & reflections |  3 |  4.5  
16 |  **1. 3 rd Rock: Gender Stereotypes** **2. Unit 8 The Stink Bug** ① read  ② group discussion Final exam |  **1. 3 rd Rock: Gender Stereotypes: review the notion of stereotypes** **2. Unit 8 The Stink Bug: how to use the "causes & effects" pattern** exam |  **1. 3 rd Rock: Gender Stereotypes** ① video ② language notes ③ group discussion ④ share thoughts & reflections **2. Unit 8 The Stink Bug** ① read  ② group discussion 3. homework: write a "causes & effects" paragraph |  3 |  4.5  
17 |  |  |  |  |   
18 |  |  |  |  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_25%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class time will be devoted to activities that allow you to practice and interact in English. To successfully complete the course, you must prepare the assigned homework prior to class and, while in class actively participate in class discussions and pair/group work. Your final grades are determined by the following course components:
  * Participation (including attendance, effort on speaking in class, and homework): 20%
  * Oral presentations and written assignments: 30%
  * Midterm and final exams: 20%
  * Others (e.g., in-class exercises/quizzes): 30%


**_Participation_**
Your participation grade will be based on your attendance, homework preparation, and the contribution you make to the learning experience of others. Contribution includes your in-class questions to the instructor, insights and comments regarding class content, answers to the instructor’s questions, and reactions to other students’ contributions. 
**_In-class exercises/quizzes_**
Periodically throughout the semester, writing/listening exercises and pop quizzes will be given in class. These exercises and quizzes can NOT be made up. 
**_Oral presentations_**
You will give an individual oral report and a group presentation during the semester. For the individual report, you will tell a 3-minute personal anecdote. For the group presentation, you and three other students will report on a current event. The presentation should be approximately 15 minutes, followed by a 5-minute discussion. Each group should meet with the instructor two weeks prior to their presentation to discuss their topic and present their outline. Following the presentation, they will submit a group written report. More details will be provided in class.
**_Written assignments_**
In addition to the periodic in-class and take-home writing exercises, there will be three written assignments based on the online learning materials for the course. In each assignment, you will respond to the writing prompts regarding a cross-cultural issue. Your papers should show you have completed and thought seriously and critically about the readings and videos provided for you. You are also encouraged to research the topic and cite your sources. The grading rubric for the written assignments is available on the class website.
**_Examinations_**
All materials, including the readings, handouts, and information provided in class will potentially be included on mid-term and final exams. The mid-term exam is a written test, and the final exam contains a written test and a speaking test. The written tests include vocabulary/grammar questions, a listening/reading section, and short writing tasks. The speaking test requires you to answer two or more questions, each question for two minutes. The instructor will evaluate your ability to respond to the questions appropriately and to speak for an extended period of time without hesitation, deviation or repetition. The grading rubric for the speaking test is available on the class website. No make-up exams will be given unless you have received the instructor’s permission in advance. 
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Course-related learning materials are compiled by the instructor and shared with students via a Google Cloud Drive link.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Students will be informed when the use of AI apps is prohibited, such as during exams. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1VxFbsuMg0i-LOwVITZuUm1_nnelDkbCn?usp=drive_link
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Monday 12:00-18:00 (道藩B1, 320004/國際大樓外文中心教師休息室)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
1. Make copies of handouts.
2. Grade quizzes.
3. Register quiz points.
4. Convert and edit files
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
