國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：大學英文（一） 
#####  Course Name: College English I
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：032001641 Course No.032001641


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_38_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center 
  * 授課老師：崔正芳 Instructor: TSUI CHENG-FANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
College English I/II is a two-semester course, designed to help students improve their English language proficiency, be prepared for learning in a higher education environment in English, and develop the ability to engage critically with the world. While it is a four-skills (listening, speaking, reading, writing) integrated course, a particular emphasis will be placed on speaking and writing skills freshman students tend to lack most. All College English I/II courses are conducted in English.  
Students will be exposed to a wide variety of knowledge areas and are expected to use the English language to interact with others, absorb information, and examine their own thinking. It is hoped that through the vehicle of English language, students are able to, not only sharpen their language skills, but also develop their interpersonal skills and thinking styles that are essential to their university studies.
Themes involving university life, self-awareness, language and literature, science and technology, health and environmental issues, and other current issues are all among the topics of interest. Class activities, in either a classroom or a language lab, will be provided in as many different formats as possible, including but not limited to, lectures, pair-work, group discussions, debates, role-plays, and group presentations.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the course, students will have improved their English language proficiency, be better prepared for learning other subjects in EMI (English as a medium of instruction) settings, and acquired familiarity with a selection of issues related to cross-cultural communication.
**_Learning outcomes for speaking_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  * Initiate, continue, and end social and academic conversations
  * Propose/ask questions appropriately and clearly in formal and academic occasions
  * Narrate an event and describe objects
  * Summarize reading and listening content
  * Express opinions regarding reading and listening materials


**_Learning outcomes for writing_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  * Write a formal email in the higher education context
  * Depict an experience and describe objects
  * Describe statistical data and diagrams
  * Write a summary of reading and listening content
  * Write a short composition


**_Learning outcomes related to intercultural awareness_**
By the end of the course, students will have improved their ability to:
  * Analyze cultural differences using relevant intercultural theories
  * Identify potential misunderstandings or conflicts in intercultural situations
  * Gain a better understanding of their own culture


**_Learning outcomes related to interpersonal skills_**
By the end of the course, students will have improved their ability to:
  * Detect hidden messages of people's body language
  * Demonstrate proper verbal and non-verbal feedback as a listener
  * Take initiative to work with less familiar peers 


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**COURSE SCHEDULE**
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |   
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction  |  Email Essentials & Etiquette |  Socializing exercise  Emailing your professor |   
2 |  Intelligence;  Cross-cultural Communication |  Emotional intelligence; Moodle Unit 1: Hofstede culture theory |  Group discussion;  Moodle Unit 1: complete video-viewing and quizzes |   
3 |  Intelligence |  Multiple intelligences |  Video viewing +  group discussion Written assignment 1 due  |   
4 |  Academic writing;  
Cross-cultural Communication |  Topic sentence & short composition Moodle Unit 2: Stereotypes |  In-class writing exercise Moodle Unit 2: Complete video-viewing and quizzes |   
5 |  Sports |  What makes an Olympic champion? |  Listening task + summary exercise  Describing data & charts |   
6 |  The invisible |  Ghost Month vs. Halloween |  Video viewing +  group discussion  Written assignment 2 due |   
7 |  Midterm  |  **Midterm Exam** |  |   
8 |  Oral test |  **Individual Speech** |  |   
9 |  Beauty;  
Cross-cultural Communication |  Plastic surgery & eternal youth  Moodle Unit 3: Education |  Group discussion Moodle Unit 3: complete video-viewing and quizzes |   
10 |  Beauty |  The new transplant revolution |  Video viewing group discussion |   
11 |  Computer culture |  Unmasking virus writers and hackers  |  Listening task +  summarizing key points +  group discussion |   
12 |  Computer culture |  White-hat and black-hat hackers |  Listening task +  summarizing key points +  group discussion |   
13 |  Cyber identity |  Cyberbullying  Social Media and Self-Doubt |  Case study + debate  Written assignment 3 due |   
14 |  Performance test |  **Group presentations** |  |   
15 |  Performance test |  **Group presentations** |  |   
16 |  Final Exam |  **Final Exam** |  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_25%_
####  講述 Lecture
_35%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class time will be devoted to activities that allow you to practice and interact in English. To successfully complete the course, you must prepare the assigned homework prior to class and, while in class actively participate in class discussions and pair/group work. Your final grades are determined by the following course components:
**COURSE EVALUATION**
  * Attendance (10%), class participation (10%), quizzes/homework (20%) ------------------------- 40 %
  * Midterm examination ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 15 %
  * Final examination ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 15 %
  * Oral presentations ----------------------------- --------- ------------------------------------------ 20%
  * E-learning (http://moodle.nccu.edu.tw) ----------------------------------------------------------- 10%


**Attendance and Class** **Participation**
Attendance will be recorded in every class, when possible. Any absence will be counted against your records unless a leave of absence is requested to the instructor by phone or email, _before_ or _by the end of_ the absent day. Habitual lateness and unauthorized use of cell phone will also jeopardize your attendance records. Participation grade will be based on your before-class preparation and the contribution you make to the learning experience of others. Contribution includes your in-class questions to the instructor, insights and comments regarding class content, answers to the instructor's questions, and reactions to other students' contributions. 
**In-class exercises/quizzes**
Periodically throughout the semester, writing/listening exercises and pop quizzes will be given in class. These exercises and quizzes can NOT be made up. However, with an approved leave of absence, missed quizzes, which otherwise would count as zero, will not count towards your composite final grade.
**Oral presentations**
You will give an individual oral report and a group presentation during the semester. For the individual report, you will tell a 3-minute personal anecdote. For the group presentation, you and 3 (or 4) other students will report on a current event. The presentation should be approximately 15 minutes, followed by a 5-minute discussion. More details will be provided in class. The grading rubric for the speaking performance will be made available to you. 
**Written assignments**
In addition to the periodic in-class writing exercises, there will be three (3) written assignments based on the class materials. In each assignment, you will respond to the writing prompts regarding a social or cultural issue. Your papers should show you have completed and thought seriously and critically about the readings and videos provided for you. You are also encouraged to research the topic and cite your sources. The grading rubric for the written assignments shall be made available to you.
**Examinations**
All materials, including the readings, handouts, and information provided in class will potentially be included on mid-term and final exams. The mid-term and final exams are written tests that include vocabulary/grammar questions, a reading section, and short writing tasks.  Exams can NOT be made up or rescheduled unless you provide documentation of a true emergency.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Course materials**
# **Required Text**
# A collection of readings from different sources, available for purchase at Campus Photocopy Shop
**Resources**
VoiceTube: https://tw.voicetube.com
BBC Learning English: http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish
TED talks: https://www.ted.com/talks
LTTC BESTEP: https://bestep.tw/
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Follow instructor's specific instructions to carry out the assignments. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/06/20 Syllabus_College English I_Fall2025.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
10am ~ noon, Mondays
Room 804, Researh Building
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
