國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：大學英文（一） 
#####  Course Name: College English I
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：032001451 Course No.032001451


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_38_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center 
  * 授課老師：彭家洋 Instructor: PENG CHIA-YANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
College English I/II is a two-semester course, designed to help students improve their English language proficiency, be prepared for learning in a higher education environment in English, and develop the ability to engage critically with the world. While it is a four-skills (listening, speaking, reading, writing) integrated course, a particular emphasis will be placed on speaking and writing skills freshman students tend to lack most. All College English I/II courses are conducted in English.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the course, students will have improved their English language proficiency, be better prepared for learning other subjects in EMI (English as a medium of instruction) settings, and acquired familiarity with a selection of issues related to cross-cultural communication.
**_Learning outcomes for speaking_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  * Initiate, continue, and end social and academic conversations
  * Propose/ask questions appropriately and clearly in formal and academic occasions
  * Narrate an event and describe objects
  * Summarize reading and listening content
  * Express opinions regarding reading and listening materials


**_Learning outcomes for writing_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  * Write a formal email in the higher education context
  * Depict an experience and describe objects
  * Describe statistical data and diagrams
  * Write a summary of reading and listening content
  * Write a short composition


**_Learning outcomes related to intercultural awareness_**
By the end of the course, students will have improved their ability to:
  * Analyze cultural differences using relevant intercultural theories
  * Identify potential misunderstandings or conflicts in intercultural situations
  * Gain a better understanding of their own culture


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** |  **課程主題** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** |  **教學活動與作業**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course Introduction  |  Cross-Cultural Communication |  Introduction of Hofstede's Cultural Dimensions  
2 |  Reactions |  Textbook, Unit 1, pp. 10-15 1A I can't stand that noise! 1B Universal emotions? | 
  * Reading/Listening Exercise
  * Grammar Exercise
  * Grouping (4 members in a group)

  
3 |  Reactions |  Textbook Unit 1, pp. 16-19 1C I couldn't believe my eyes! 1D Empathizing with others | 
  * Reading / Listening Exercise
  * Video Watching
  * Speaking (About emotions)

  
4 |  Reactions |  Textbook, Unit 1, pp. 20-21 1E Great news! |  Writing Assignment #1: Informal Email
  * Presentation G1&2 (Cultural Shock)

  
5 |  Language and Communication |  Textbook Unit 2, pp. 23-27 2A Talking nature 2B I'm taking classes at the moment | 
  * Reading / Listening Exercise
  * Group Discussion
  * Speaking (About Language Learning)

  
6 |  Language and Communication |  Textbook, Unit 2, pp. 28-31 2C The rise of English 2D Building relationships | 
  * Reading/Listening Exercise
  * Presentation G3&4 (Stereotype)
  * Group Discussion / Writing

  
7 |  Language and Communication Unfamiliar Places |  Textbook Unit 2/3, pp. 32-37 2E I am writing to enquire 3A No place like home | 
  * Writing Assignment #2 Formal Email
  * Reading Exercise
  * Pair Discussion (a two-day holiday plan)

  
8 |  Midterm Exam |  Unit 1, 2 | 
  * In-class Writing Exam
  * Pair Presentation on a holiday plan

  
9 |  Unfamiliar Places |  Textbook, Unit 3, pp. 38-41 3B It's a long story! 3C Out of sight of land | 
  * Listening/Grammar Exercise
  * Presentation G5 (Cultural Identity)

  
10 |  Unfamiliar Places |  Textbook Unit 3, pp. 42-45 3D Fixing misunderstandings 3E Getting away from the crowd | 
  * Listening / Video-watching Exercise
  * Writing Assignment #3: Writing a blog post about your life
  * Presentation G6 (Cultural Identity)

  
11 |  Reconnecting |  Textbook, Unit 4, pp. 47-51 4A In touch with nature 4B Reunited | 
  * Reading/Grammar Exercise
  * Presentation G7 (Cultural Education)

  
12 |  Reconnecting |  Textbook Unit 4, pp. 52-55 4C Keeping in touch 4D Understanding turn-taking styles | 
  * Listening / Video-watching Exercise
  * Presentation G8 (Cultural Education)

  
13 |  Reconnecting A world of cultures |  |  Textbook, Unit 4/10, pp. 56-57, 119-121 4E A chance encounter 10A A thousand rhythms  
---  
  * Reading Exercise
  * Writing Assignment #4 Writing a summary of an assigned reading
  * Presentation G9 (Individualism vs. Collectivism)

  
14 |  A world of cultures |  |  Textbook Unit 10, pp. 122-125 10B Dare to express yourself 10C My different cultures  
---  
  * Reading / Listening Exercise
  * Grammar Exercise
  * Presenation G10 (Individualism vs. Collectivism)

  
15 |  A world of cultures |  Textbook Unit 10, pp. 126-129 10D Dealing with assumptions 10E Cultural highlights | 
  * Reading / Video-watching Exercise
  * Writing Assignment #5 Graphic Information Description

  
16 |  Final Writing Exam |  Unit 3, 4, 5 |  In-class Writing Exam Pair Presentation on a context where differences in viewpoint and misunderstanding can occur  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_25%_
####  講述 Lecture
_35%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class time will be devoted to activities that allow you to practice and interact in English. To successfully complete the course, you must prepare the assigned homework prior to class and, while in class actively participate in class discussions and pair/group work. Your final grades are determined by the following course components:
  * Participation (including attendance, class discussion, and homework): 20%
  * Oral presentations: 20%
  * Written assignments: 30%
  * Midterm and final exams: 30% (15% for writing test and pair presentation respectively)


**Participation**
Your participation grade will be based on your attendance, homework preparation, and the contribution you make to the learning experience of others. Contribution includes your in-class questions to the instructor, insights and comments regarding class content, answers to the instructor's questions, and reactions to other students' contributions.
**Oral presentations**
You will give an individual oral report and a group presentation during the semester. For the individual report, you will tell a 3-minute personal anecdote. For the group presentation, you and three other students will report on a current event. The presentation should be approximately 20 minutes, followed by a 5-minute discussion. Each group should meet with the instructor two weeks prior to their presentation to discuss their topic and present their outline.
**Written assignments**
There will be five major written assignments in addition to in-class and take-home writing exercises. In each assignment, you will respond to writing prompts about a cultural issue using the writing skills you learned in class. Your paper should demonstrate that you have thought seriously and critically about the topic and made effective use of the resources provided. You are also encouraged to research the topic and cite your sources. The grading rubric for the written assignments is available on the class website.
**Examinations**
All materials, including the readings, handouts, and information provided in class will potentially be included on mid-term and final exams. Both the mid-term exam and final exam include a written test and a speaking test in the form of pair presentation. The written tests include vocabulary/grammar questions and a reading section. The speaking test requires you to give an oral presentation with your partner. The instructor will evaluate your ability to present your ideas appropriately in a short period of time naturally and confidently. The grading rubric for the speaking test is available on the class website. Exams can NOT be made up or rescheduled unless you provide documentation of a true emergency.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Course materials**
Voices 6, by Daniel Barber & Marek Kiczkowiak (National Geographic Learning)
**Resources**
VoiceTube: https://tw.voicetube.com
BBC Learning English: http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish
TED talks: https://www.ted.com/talks
LTTC BESTEP: https://bestep.tw/
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:學生可以使用AI apps來修正自己的作文 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office Hours: Thu. 1:00~5:00
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
