國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：大學英文（一） 
#####  Course Name: College English I
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：032001431 Course No.032001431


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_38_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center 
  * 授課老師：余懿珊 Instructor: YU YI-SHAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
College English I/II is a two-semester course, designed to help students improve their English language proficiency, be prepared for learning in a higher education environment in English, and develop the ability to engage critically with the world. While it is a four-skills (listening, speaking, reading, writing) integrated course, a particular emphasis will be placed on speaking and writing skills freshman students tend to lack most. All College English I/II courses are conducted in English.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the course, students will have improved their English language proficiency, be better prepared for learning other subjects in EMI (English as a medium of instruction) settings, and acquired familiarity with a selection of issues related to cross-cultural communication.
_**Learning outcomes for speaking**_
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  *     * Initiate, continue, and end social and academic conversations
    * Propose/ask questions appropriately and clearly on formal and academic occasions
    * Narrate an event and describe objects
    * Summarize reading and listening content 
    * Express opinions regarding reading and listening materials 


_**Learning outcomes for writing**_
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  *     * Write a formal email in the higher education context
    * Depict an experience and describe objects
    * Describe statistical data and diagrams 
    * Write a summary of reading and listening content
    * Write a short composition 


_**Learning outcomes related to intercultural awareness**_
By the end of the course, students will have improved their ability to:
  *     * Analyze cultural differences using relevant intercultural theories
    * Identify potential misunderstandings or conflicts in intercultural situations
    * Gain a better understanding of their own culture


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Topic** |  **Content** |  **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course Overview | 
  * Self-Introduction

| 
  * Icebreaking and social interactions

  
2 |  College Life | 
  * College: New demands and expectations
  * The purpose of universities

| 
  * **Writing assignment 1:**  
Summary Writing: Your personal timeline

  
3 |  Goals, dreams and ambitions | 
  * Setting goals
  * Expanding your comfort zone

| 
  * Grammar: Review of tenses
  * Speaking: SMART goals

  
4 |  Turning Challenges into Opportunities | 
  * TED Talk: 5 ways to kill your dreams
  * Email essentials & etiquette

| 
  * **Writing assignment 2:**  
Emailing your instructor

  
5 |  Reading the World | 
  * TED Talk: My year reading a book from every country in the world

| 
  * Grammar: Adjectives and adverbs

  
6 |  Voices from Different Lands | 
  * Life of Pi: A story of faith, survival, and cultural discovery

| 
  * Mid-term exam revision

  
7 | **Student presentation 1** | 
  * Individual presentation

| 
  * News article sharing

  
8 |  **Mid-term exam** | 
  * Written exam

| 
  * Prepare for presentation

  
9 |  **Student presentation 1** | 
  * Individual presentation

| 
  * News article sharing

  
10 |  A Glimpse into Global Cultures | 
  * Hofstede's cultural dimensions 

| 
  * Comparing different cultures 

  
11 |  Navigating University Life through Data | 
  * IELTS/BESTEP Writing 

| 
  * **Writing assignment 3:**  
Chart/table description writing

  
12 |  Learning through Rules | 
  * School rules: What works and what doesn’t 

| 
  * Grammar: Modals

  
13 |  Culture Shock in Education | 
  * Are our kids tough enough? Chinese school 

| 
  * Vocabulary & reading 

  
14 |  Final review | 
  * Bridging the “gap” 

| 
  * Prepare for presentation
  * Intercultural Communication (Online module) Moodle lessons, Unit 1-3

  
15 |  **Student presentation 2** | 
  * Group presentation

| 
  * Role-play

  
16 |  **Final exam** | 
  * Written exam

|   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_25%_
####  講述 Lecture
_35%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class time will be devoted to activities that allow you to practice and interact in English. To successfully complete the course, you must prepare the assigned homework prior to class and, while in class actively participate in discussions and pair/group work. Your final grades are determined by the following course components:
  * Participation (including attendance, class discussion, and homework): 20%
  * Written assignments: 30%
  * Oral presentations: 20% 
  * Midterm and final exams: 30%


**_Attendance and Participation_**
Attendance will be recorded in every class. Any absence will be counted against your records unless a leave of absence is requested to the instructor by email, prior to or by the end of the absent day. Habitual lateness will also jeopardize your attendance records. Participation grade will be based on your before-class preparation and the contribution you make to the learning experience of others. Contribution includes your in-class questions to the instructor, insights and comments regarding class content, answers to the instructor's questions, and reactions to other students' contributions.
**_In-class exercises/quizzes_**
Periodically throughout the semester, writing/listening exercises and pop quizzes will be given in class. These exercises and quizzes can NOT be made up. However, with an approved leave of absence, missed quizzes, which otherwise would count as zero, will not count towards your composite final grade.
**_Oral presentations_**
You will give an individual oral report and a group presentation during the semester. For the individual report, you will give a 3-minute PowerPoint presentation on one recent article written from CNN, BBC, The Washington Post, or The New York Times. For the group presentation, in a group of 3-4, you and your groupmates will talk about one of the topics covered during the semester. The presentation should be approximately 10 minutes, followed by a 5-minute discussion. Notes are allowed, but you cannot read directly from the scripts. More details will be provided in class.
Note: For group assignments, individual grades will still be awarded reflecting your individual effort, participation and achievement in the group. In short, not every member of the group will receive the same grade.
**_Written assignments_**
In addition to the periodic in-class and take-home writing exercises, there will be three written assignments for the course. Your papers should show you have completed and thought seriously and critically about the readings and videos provided for you. You are also encouraged to research the topic and cite your sources. 
  1. **Summary Writing: A Personal Timeline:** Create a timeline of significant events in your life. Summarize your personal journey and discuss how the key moments have shaped who you are today and influenced your decisions and actions in the future. (10%)
  2. **Emailing Your Instructor:** Write an email to your instructor in the correct format. Attach your completed assignment to the email. Ensure that your email includes a proper greeting, body, and closing. Demonstrate professional and clear communication. (10%)
  3. **Graph/Table Description Writing:** Analyze and describe a graph and a table provided to you. Write a detailed description of the data presented, explaining any trends, patterns, or significant points. Use appropriate vocabulary and structures to convey your analysis effectively. (10%)


All written assignments are to be handed in on the due dates. Late submissions may be penalized up to 20%. More details will be provided in class. The rubrics are available on Moodle.
**_Examinations_**
All materials, including the readings, handouts, and information provided in class, will potentially be included on mid-term and final exams. The exams will cover vocabulary and grammar questions, listening and reading sections, and may include a short writing task. No make-up exams will be given unless you have received the instructor’s permission in advance.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  * **Handouts:** To be distributed in class.
  * **Supplementary readings :** To be distributed in class.
  * **Resources:**


VoiceTube: https://tw.voicetube.com
BBC Learning English: http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish
TED talks: https://www.ted.com/talks
LTTC BESTEP: https://bestep.tw/
  * **Study materials for** _**Introduction to Cross-cultural Communication**_**(CCC)**


(a) Dimensions of national culture [Reading]
(b) Country comparison [Reading]
(c) Hofstede's six cultural dimensions
  * Hofstede on Individualism versus Collectivism [Video]
  * Hofstede on Power Distance [Video]
  * Hofstede on Uncertainty Avoidance [Video]
  * Hofstede on Masculine versus Femininity [Video]
  * Hofstede on Long versus Short Term Orientation [Video]
  * Hofstede on Indulgence versus Restraint [Video]


(d) Host Chris Rock rapped over Asian-American 'joke' [Video] 
(e) Chris Rock criticized after Asian joke at Oscars [Video] 
(f) People Aren't Happy With Chris Rock's Asian Joke At The Academy Awards [Reading] 
(g) Donald Trump vs Barack Obama: Talking About Women [Video]
(h) The Origins of Stereotypes [Reading]
(i) Stereotypes and Prejudices [Reading]
(j) College Classroom Culture
  * Be on Time to Class. Americans Appreciate it [Video]
  * How are Discussions Carried out in U.S. Classrooms vs. Other Countries? [Video]
  * Deadlines are not Flexible in the U.S. [Video]
  * How do you React if you are Uncomfortable in the Classroom? [Video]
  * Do U.S. Students Like Having International Students in Class [Video]


(k) Formal and informal classroom culture in the U.S.
  * Living in the U.S. – Formal Classroom Culture [Video]
  * Living in the U.S. – Informal Classroom Culture [Video]


(l) A Conversation with Chinese and American Students [Video]
(m) How Do American, Chinese and French Students Characterize their Teachers' Communication? [Reading]
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用: Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
