國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：大學英文（一） 
#####  Course Name: College English I
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：032001701 Course No.032001701


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_38_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center 
  * 授課老師：蘇靖棻 Instructor: SU JING-FEN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
College English I/II is a two-semester course, designed to help students improve their English language proficiency, be prepared for learning in a higher education environment in English, and develop the ability to engage critically with the world. While it is a four-skills (listening, speaking, reading, writing) integrated course, a particular emphasis will be placed on speaking and writing skills students tend to lack most. All College English I/II courses are conducted in English.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the course, students will have improved their English language proficiency, be better prepared for learning other subjects in EMI (English as a medium of instruction) settings, and acquired familiarity with a selection of issues related to intercultural communication.
**_Learning outcomes for speaking_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  *     * Initiate, continue, and end social and academic conversations
    * Propose/ask questions appropriately and clearly on formal and academic occasions
    * Narrate an event and describe objects
    * Summarize reading and listening content 
    * Express opinions regarding reading and listening materials 


**_Learning outcomes for writing_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  *     * Write a formal email in the higher education context
    * Depict an experience and describe objects
    * Describe statistical data and diagrams 
    * Write a summary of reading and listening content
    * Write a short composition 


**_Learning outcomes related to intercultural awareness_**
By the end of the course, students will have improved their ability to:
  *     * Analyze cultural differences using relevant intercultural theories
    * Identify potential misunderstandings or conflicts in intercultural situations
    * Gain a better understanding of their own culture


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course overview & email writing | 
  * Introduction to Moodle and Zuvio
  * Formal Email writing

| 
  * Writing exercise: Write an email to your professor
  * **Homework:** preview Unit 1C “The stressed-out generation” (pp. 18-19) and post one discussion question based on 1C on Moodle

  
2 | Embrace Stress |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 1 Embrace Stress! A-B (pp. 13-17)  
Intercultural Communication Unit 1 | 
  * Exercises in Unit 1
  * Group discussion on “Dealing with stress”
  * **Homework:** choose to answer one question on 1C designed by your classmates on Moodle

  
3 | Embrace Stress |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 1 Embrace Stress! C-E (pp. 18-24) | 
  * Exercises in Unit 2
  * **Homework:** preview Unit 2C “Are superheroes good role models?” (pp. 30-31) and post one discussion question based on the reading on Moodle

  
4 | Media Influence |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 2 Media Influence A-C (pp. 25-32)  
Intercultural Communication Unit 2 | 
  * Exercises in Unit 2
  * Group discussions on “Analyzing superheroes”
  * **Homework:** choose to answer one question on 2C designed by your classmates on Moodle

  
5 | Media Influence | 
  * _Keynote 4_ Unit 2 Media Influence D-E (pp. 33-36)
  * Lecture on summary writing

| 
  * Exercises in Unit 3
  * Group presentations on “Analyzing superheroes”
  * **Homework: #** 1st written assignment—write a summary

  
6 | Development |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 3 Development A-C (pp. 37-44) | 
  * Exercises in Unit 3
  * Pair discussion on “Relationship between money and happiness”
  * **Homework:** brainstorm and post your topic for individual oral presentation on Moodle (refer to  _Keynote 4_ Presentations 1& 2, pp. 49-50 & 87-88)

  
7 |  Development; Describe statistical data and diagrams | 
  * _Keynote 4_ Unit 3 Development D-E (pp. 45-48)
  * News articles on wealth distribution in Taiwan

| 
  * Group discussion on “The distribution of wealth” in Taiwan
  * **Homework:** #2nd written assignment—“Ideal Wealth Distribution in Taiwan”

  
8 |  Secrets and Lies |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 4 Secrets and Lies A-B (pp. 51-55)  
Intercultural Communication Unit 3 | 
  * Exercises in Unit 4
  * Group presentation on “Stretching the truth in job interviews”
  * **Homework:** preview Unit 4C “Lies we need to tell” (pp. 56-57) and post one discussion question based on the reading on Moodle

  
9 | Secrets and Lies |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 4 Secrets and Lies C-E (pp. 56-62) | 
  * Exercises in Unit 4
  * “The lying game”
  * **Homework:** write and submit your draft of individual oral presentation to Moodle

  
10 | To the Edge |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 5 To the Edge A-C (pp. 63-70) | 
  * Exercises in Unit 5
  * Individual and group discussion on “Talking about yesterday’s activities”
  * **Homework:** choose to answer one question on 5C designed by your classmates on Moodle

  
11 | To the Edge |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 5 To the Edge D-E (pp. 71-74) | 
  * Exercises in Unit 5
  * Group discussion of one question on 5C designed by your classmates
  * **Homework:** submit your PPT of individual oral presentation to Moodle; rehearse individual oral presentation

  
12 | Individual Oral Presentations I |  Topic: “A fictional character who inspires me” or “My most significant achievement” | 
  * Peer evaluation and feedback
  * **Homework:** rehearse individual oral presentation

  
13 | Individual Oral Presentations II |  Topic: “A fictional character who inspires me” or “My most significant achievement” | 
  * Peer evaluation and feedback
  * **Homework:** preview Unit 6C “Giving something back” (pp. 80-81) and post one discussion question based on the reading on Moodle

  
14 | Money Matters |  _Keynote 4_ Unit 6 Money Matters A-C (pp. 75-82) | 
  * Exercises in Unit 6
  * Assigned self-study materials

  
15 | Money Matters | 
  * _Keynote 4_ Unit 6 Money Matters D-E (pp. 83-86)
  * Hugh Evans’ TED talk “What does it mean to be a citizen of the world”

| 
  * Exercises in Unit 6
  * Individual and group discussion on “Promoting a charity initiative”
  * **Homework:** #3rd written assignment

  
16 |  Final Exam |  Final Exam |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_25%_
####  講述 Lecture
_35%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class time will be devoted to activities that allow you to practice and interact in English. To successfully complete the course, you must prepare the assigned homework prior to class and, while in class actively participate in discussions and pair/group work. Your final grades are determined by the following course components:
  * Participation (including attendance, class discussion, and homework): 10-20%
  * Oral presentations and written assignments: 30-40% 
  * Midterm and final exams: 30-40%
  * Others (e.g., in-class exercises/quizzes): 10%


**_Participation & Participation_**
You are required to attend classes regularly and on time. Absences (including sick leave and personal leave), tardiness, or early departure will damage your attendance grade. Contact me about your absence before class if you must miss class. _*If you have FIVE (or more) unexcused absences, you will not be allowed to take the final exam._
Your participation grade will be based on your homework preparation, and the contribution you make to the learning experience of others. Contribution includes your in-class questions to the instructor, insights and comments regarding class content, answers to the instructor’s questions, and reactions to other students’ contributions. Speaking up in class, either being called or voluntarily, will add points to your participation grade. Try to catch any opportunity to speak up in class to earn bonus points! Writing down your responses to questions on Moodle Discussion Boards will also add points to your participation grade.
**_In-class exercises/quizzes_**
Periodically throughout the semester, listening/writing/speaking exercises will be given in class. You should follow instructions and submit your answers, writings or recordings to Moodle or Zuvio in time in class. These exercises can NOT be made up. It is advisable that you upload the images of all the writings you have done for the course to Moodle regularly. I will use these files as reference when I evaluate your writing performance at the end of the semester.
**_Oral presentations_**
You will give a group presentation and an individual oral presentation during the semester. For the group presentation in Week 5, you will analyze a superhero from TV, movie, or comic books based on the discussion of Keynote 4 Unit 2 (pp. 25-36). For the individual oral presentation in Weeks 12 & 13, you will give a 4-5 minute presentation on “A fictional character who inspires me” or “My most significant achievement” based on Keynote 4 Presentations 1 & 2 (pp. 49-50 & 87-88). More detailed guidelines for this assignment can be seen on our Moodle course page. The grading rubric for individual oral presentation is available on the class website.
**_Written assignments_**
In addition to the periodic in-class and take-home writing exercises, there will be three major written assignments: a summary on an assigned reading, an essay on “Ideal Wealth Distribution in Taiwan” (based on the discussion of Keynote 4 Unit 3, pp. 37-48), and will respond to the writing prompts regarding a cross-cultural issue. Your papers should show you have completed and thought seriously and critically about the readings and videos provided for you. You are also encouraged to research the topic and cite your sources. The grading rubric for the written assignments is available on the class website. Late submission will lead to lower grades of your assignment. There will also be several in-class writing exercises throughout the semester. You need to upload the images of all the writings you have done for the course to Moodle regularly. I will use these files as reference when I evaluate your writing performance at the end of the semester.
**_Examination_**
All materials, including the readings, handouts, and information provided in class will potentially be included on the final exam. The final exam is a written test on vocabulary/grammar questions, a reading comprehension section, and short writing tasks. No make-up exams will be given unless you have received the instructor’s permission in advance.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  * Textbook: To be announced in class. (本課程上課教材會在第一次上課時說明，同學不需要事先購買。)
  * Supplementary readings: To be distributed in class. 
  * Resources:


VoiceTube: _https://tw.voicetube.com_
BBC Learning English: _http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish_
TED talks: _https://www.ted.com/talks_
LTTC BESTEP: https://bestep.tw/
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:修課學生可以使用AI工具輔助學習與完成作業，但不鼓勵直接複製貼上 AI 生成的內容，因為這樣對於提升英文能力的幫助有限。 若在作業中使用了任何 AI 工具，請務必在繳交的作業中註明所使用的工具名稱，並附上使用紀錄的截圖作為佐證資料，以確保作業的透明度與學術誠信。 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Online Module on Intercultural Communication: https://moodle.nccu.edu.tw/
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
by appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
