國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：大學英文（一） 
#####  Course Name: College English I
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：032001291 Course No.032001291


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_38_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center 
  * 授課老師：毛佩琦 Instructor: MAO PEI-CHI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五D56 Session: fri13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
欲加簽本班課程之學生無須一一來信，請直接加入本班遞補名單，由系統直接遞補。
本班每堂課都點名。
College English I/II is a two-semester course, designed to help students improve their English language proficiency, be prepared for learning in a higher education environment in English, and develop the ability to engage critically with the world. While it is a four-skills (listening, speaking, reading, writing) integrated course, a particular emphasis will be placed on speaking and writing skills students tend to lack most. All College English I/II courses are conducted in English.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the course, students will have improved their English language proficiency, be better prepared for learning other subjects in EMI (English as a medium of instruction) settings, and acquired familiarity with a selection of issues related to intercultural communication.
**_Learning outcomes for speaking_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  *     * Initiate, continue, and end social and academic conversations
    * Propose/ask questions appropriately and clearly on formal and academic occasions
    * Narrate an event and describe objects
    * Summarize reading and listening content 
    * Express opinions regarding reading and listening materials 


**_Learning outcomes for writing_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  *     * Write a formal email in the higher education context
    * Depict an experience and describe objects
    * Describe statistical data and diagrams 
    * Write a summary of reading and listening content
    * Write a short composition 


**_Learning outcomes related to intercultural awareness_**
By the end of the course, students will have improved their ability to:
  *     * Analyze cultural differences using relevant intercultural theories
    * Identify potential misunderstandings or conflicts in intercultural situations
    * Gain a better understanding of their own culture


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 | Course Overview & Tips on Small Talk, Self-Introduction, and Interviews | 
  * Group Discussion
  * Get to know your teammates.

| 
  * Practice the tips introduced in class. 
  * Get your textbook ready and bring it to class next time.

  
2 |  Hopes and dreams | 
  * Textbook unit 1 
  * TED Talk: 8 _Traits of Successful People_
  * Characteristics of a good presentation 
  * Reading:_Living the Dream_
  * Group discussion

| 
  * Watch the TED talk again.
  * Read the article again.

  
3 |  Hopes and dreams | 
  * Textbook unit 1
  * Collocations
  * Reading: _A 3-Step Method For Achieving Any Goal_
  * Reading aloud and describing a picture
  * Speaking activity: creating a dialogue about college goals

| 
  * Exercises in unit 1
  * Describe a picture.

  
4 |  Hopes and dreams | 
  * Textbook unit 1
  * TED Talk: _Five Ways to Kill your Dreams_
  * Paraphrasing
  * _How to write an email_
  * Writing exercise & common mistakes in students’ emails

| 
  * 1st written assignment: writing an email to discuss your college goals

  
5 |  Reading the world | 
  * Textbook unit 2
  * Gradable and ungradable adjectives
  * IELTS speaking strategies
  * The most popular books in the world
  * Describing your favorite books and movies
  * How reading habits have changed over time

| 
  * Exercises in unit 2
  * Read the assigned article.

  
6 |  Reading the World | 
  * Textbook unit 2
  * Similes and Metaphors
  * IELTS speaking part 2
  * The development of a story
  * Writing an ending to a story

| 
  * Exercises in unit 2

  
7 |  Reading the world | 
  * Textbook unit 2
  * Books genres 
  * TED Talk: _My Year Reading a Book from Every Country in the World_
  * How to deliver an effective presentation 
  * Steve Jobs' iPhone launch
  * Midterm review worksheet

| 
  * Prepare for the midterm exam.

  
8 |  **Midterm Exam &** **Student presentation** | 
  * Exam & presentation 

| 
  * Prepare your presentation slides.
  * Practice for your presentation.

  
9 |  **Student presentation** | 
  * Individual presentation

|   
10 | Pristine Places | 
  * Textbook unit 3
  * First, second and third conditional
  * Compound words
  * IELTS Speaking Part 3
  * Stand-up comedy and stereotypes

| 
  * Exercises in unit 3

  
11 | Pristine Places | 
  * Textbook unit 3
  * Prefixes and acronyms
  * Documentary: _A Plastic Ocean_
  * UNESCO world heritage sites
  * Speaking activity: creating a pledge about ocean protection

| 
  * Exercises in unit 3
  * Watch the assigned video.

  
12 |  Pristine Places | 
  * Textbook unit 3
  * TED talk: _An Underwater Museum Teeming with Life_
  * How to write a summary
  * How to write a reflection
  * CNN news article
  * Group discussion

| 
  * 2nd written assignment: Writing a summary and reflection on the given article

  
13 |  Global Citizens | 
  * Textbook unit 5
  * Words and phrases to describe a person’s character
  * Malala's life story
  * Grammar point: inversion
  * Article: “A Kinder World?”
  * Group discussion: role models

| 
  * Exercises in unit 5
  * Read the assigned article again.

  
14 | Global Citizens | 
  * Textbook Unit 5 
  * Ice rice bucket challenge
  * Popular people and trends
  * TED talk: _What does it Mean to be a Citizen of the World?_
  * Expressions for persuading and resisting
  * Speaking activity: create a dialogue

| 
  * Exercises in unit 5
  * Watch the assigned video.

  
15 |  Final review  | 
  * Final Review
  * Review worksheet
  * Writing practice: How to describe a graph
  * Group conversation practice

| 
  * Prepare for the final exam.
  * Practice for your group conversation.

  
16 |  **Final Exam** **Group Conversation** | 
  * Exam
  * Group Conversation
  * Writing task: Describing a graph

| 
  * **Writing task: Describing a graph**

  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_25%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class time will be devoted to activities that allow you to practice and interact in English. To successfully complete the course, you must learn the required vocabulary words, prepare for your presentation and group conversation, and review the materials for the midterm and final exams. Additionally, active participation in discussions and pair/group work during class is strongly encouraged. Your final grades are determined by the following course components:
  * Participation (including attendance, class discussions, and class activities): 20%
  * Midterm exam (including a writing task): 20%
  * Final exam (including a writing task): 20%
  * Individual presentation: 15% 
  * Written assignments: 15%
  * Group Conversation: 10%


_**Participation**_
Your participation grade will be based on your attendance, class discussions, and the contributions you make to the learning experience of others. Contributions include your in-class questions to the instructor, insights and comments about class content, answers to the instructor's questions, and responses to other students' contributions.
_**Examinations**_
All materials, including the readings, handouts, and videos provided in class, may be included on the midterm and final exams. Both the midterm and final exams are written tests containing a vocabulary section, a listening section, a reading section, and a writing task. No make-up exams will be given unless you have received the instructor's permission in advance.
_**Written assignments**_
In addition to the in-class writing exercises, there will be two assignments of 250 words each, based on the course materials. Both the midterm and final exams will also include a writing task related to the writing skills introduced in class. More details will be provided in class.
**_Student presentations_**
You will give a 5-minute PowerPoint presentation on your city or present a news article about your country from CNN, BBC, _The Washington Post_ , or _The New York Times_. More details will be provided in class.
**_Group Conversation_**
For the group conversation, you and your teammates will discuss one of the given topics. The conversation should last approximately 10 minutes, and you should aim to use as many words taught in class as possible. No scripts are allowed.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  * Textbook: _Perspectives 4_ by Amanda Jeffries, Daniel Barber & Lewis Lansford (2018) 
  * Handouts: To be distributed in class. 
  * Resources:


VoiceTube: _https://tw.voicetube.com_
BBC Learning English: _http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish_
TED talks: _https://www.ted.com/talks_
LTTC BESTEP: https://bestep.tw/
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Students are not allowed to use AI to generate content for written assignments. However, they may use AI to proofread their work. Detailed instructions will be provided in class. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Moodle
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
**Office:** Research Building, Room 713  
**Office hours:** By appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
