國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：大學英文（一） 
#####  Course Name: College English I
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：032001091 Course No.032001091
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center 
  * 授課老師：李寶莉 Instructor: LEE PAO-LI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
College English I/II is a two-semester course, designed to help students improve their English language proficiency, be prepared for learning in a higher education environment in English, and develop the ability to engage critically with the world. While it is a four-skills (listening, speaking, reading, writing) integrated course, a particular emphasis will be placed on speaking and writing skills students tend to lack most. All College English I/II courses are conducted in English.   
---  
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
|  |  By the end of the course, students will have improved their English language proficiency, be better prepared for learning other subjects in EMI (English as a medium of instruction) settings, and acquired familiarity with a selection of issues related to intercultural communication. _Learning outcomes for speaking_ By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  * Initiate, continue, and end social and academic conversations
  * Propose/ask questions appropriately and clearly on formal and academic occasions
  * Narrate an event and describe objects
  * Summarize reading and listening content 
  * Express opinions regarding reading and listening materials 
 _Learning outcomes for writing_ By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  * Write a formal email in the higher education context
  * Depict an experience and describe objects
  * Describe statistical data and diagrams 
  * Write a summary of reading and listening content
  * Write a short composition 
_Learning outcomes related to intercultural awareness_ By the end of the course, students will have improved their ability to:
  * Analyze cultural differences using relevant intercultural theories
  * Identify potential misunderstandings or conflicts in intercultural situations
  * Gain a better understanding of their ow n culture
---  
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
|  週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
9/3 |  Course overview & email writing | 
  * Self-introduction
  * Email etiquette
  * Writing 1 exercise: Writing an email to your professor
| 
  * Preview pp. 9-17
|  3 |  4.5  
9/10 |  Unit 1: Lessons for Life | 
  * Current events
  * Learning from the past
  * What makes us who we are?
  * Immortal words
  * How did you get into that?
| 
  * Preview pp. 18-25
|  3 |  4.5  
9/17 |  Unit 1:  Lessons for Life | 
  * Arctic wisdom
  * Living off the sea
  * Smokejumpers
  * Writing 1 practice (Description)
| 
  * Email writing
  * Preview pp. 26-32
|  3 |  4.5  
9/24 |  Unit 2: More than a job | 
  * Dearing, defiant, and free
  * Tell me a bit about yourself
  * Climbing Yosemite
  * Writing 2 practice
| 
  * Writing draft
|  3 |  4.5  
10/1 |  Rhetoric | 
  * Public Speaking Practice
  * Writing 1 Due (upload to Moodle)
  * Conversation practice
| 
  * Preview pp. 33-44
|  3 |  4.5  
10/8 |  Unit 3: Design for life | 
  * Towns with character
  * Compact living
  * The paper architect
| 
  * Preview pp. 45-49
| 3 |  4.5  
10/15 |  Unit 4: Innovation | 
  * In-class Writing 2 Due
  * Shrink it, bend it, fold it
  * The mother of invention
| 
  * Prepare for midterm
|  3 |  4.5  
10/22 |  Midterm exam | 
  * Midterm
| 
  * Preview pp. 50-59
|  3 |  4.5  
10/29 |  Unit 4: Innovation Unit 5: The magic of travel | 
  * The shoe giver
  * An elevator pitch
  * This man risked it all
  * How we travel
| 
  * Preview pp. 60-68
|  3 |  4.5  
11/5 |  Unit 5: The magic of travel | 
  * Magical mystery tour
  * The adventures of Herge
  * On the road: Andrew McCarthy
  * Presentation guidelines
| 
  * Preview pp. 69-77
  * Prepare for group presentations
|  3 |  4.5  
11/12 |  Unit 6:  Body matters (Research Building 3004) | 
  * Group presentations
  * Exercise around the world
  * No pain, no gain
  * The enigma of beauty
  * A bold initiative
| 
  * Preview pp. 78-80
|  3 |  4.5  
11/19 |  Unit 6:  Body matters (Research Building 304) | 
  * Group presentations
  * The art of parkour
  * Summary writing guidelines
| 
  * Preview summary guidelines 
|  3 |  4.5  
11/26 |  Summary writing | 
  * Writing 3 practice: Summary writing
  * Role-play grouping
| 
  * Finish writing 3
|  3 |  4.5  
12/3 |  Role-play | 
  * Writing 3 Due
  * Role-play practices
| 
  * Prepare for final exam
|  3 |  4.5  
12/10 | Written exam | 
  * Anyone late for more than 15 minutes will not be granted to take the exam
| 
  * Prepare for final oral exam
|  3 |  4.5  
12/17 | Oral exam | 
  * Role-play
| 
  * Finish online exercises
|  3 |  4.5  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.