國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：大學英文（一） 
#####  Course Name: College English I
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：032001681 Course No.032001681


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_38_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center 
  * 授課老師：黃杏妃 Instructor: HUANG HSING-FEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
College English I/II is a two-semester course, designed to help students improve their English language proficiency, be prepared for learning in a higher education environment in English, and develop the ability to engage critically with the world. While it is a four-skills (listening, speaking, reading, writing) integrated course, a particular emphasis will be placed on speaking and writing skills freshman students tend to lack most. All College English I/II courses are conducted in English.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the course, students will have improved their English language proficiency, be better prepared for learning other subjects in EMI (English as a medium of instruction) settings, and acquired familiarity with a selection of issues related to cross-cultural communication.
**_Learning outcomes for speaking_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  * Initiate, continue, and end social and academic conversations
  * Propose/ask questions appropriately and clearly in formal and academic occasions
  * Narrate an event and describe objects
  * Summarize reading and listening content
  * Express opinions regarding reading and listening materials


**_Learning outcomes for writing_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  * Write a formal email in the higher education context
  * Depict an experience and describe objects
  * Describe statistical data and diagrams
  * Write a summary of reading and listening content
  * Write a short composition


**_Learning outcomes related to intercultural awareness_**
By the end of the course, students will have improved their ability to:
  * Analyze cultural differences using relevant intercultural theories
  * Identify potential misunderstandings or conflicts in intercultural situations
  * Gain a better understanding of their own culture


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 |  Class Orientation |  Moodle & Introduction to Cross-Cultural Communication (CCC) course |  [TED TALK] _TED's secret to great public speaking_ |  3 |  4.5  
2 |  Reconnecting |  -Textbook Unit 4 [Video & Discussion] Connections  [Communication skill] Turn-taking styles  |  -Grouping  [Speaking] Keeping in touch |  3 |  4.5  
3 |  Reconnecting & Language |  -Textbook Units 4 & 2 [Reading] _I couldn’t believe my eyes!_ [Sharing] Language learning experience/tips |  Presentation basics (+ Q&A session) Speaking Assignment (SA) #1 |  3 |  4.5  
4 |  Reconnecting |  -Textbook Unit 4 [Reading] _Stay healthy by reconnecting with nature_ |  -summarizing  [Role play] ways to connect with nature  |  3 |  4.5  
5 |  **Language and communication** |  -Textbook Unit 2 [Reading skill] Scanning & skimming  |  [Podcast] The rise of English  Writing Assignment (WA)#1 (Formal email) |  3 |  4.5  
6 |  Language and communication |  -Textbook Unit 2  [Video] Learning languages |  [Listening & Discussion] Building relationships -**Group Presentation (GP) #1** |  3 |  4.5  
7 |  **Unfamiliar places** |  -Textbook Unit 3 [Game] World Knowledge [Speaking] Your journey [Listening] A memorable journey |  [Writing exercise] revising + common errors  [Video & Sharing] travel stories [TED TALK] _How to Fix a Broken School? Lead Fearlessly, Love_ _Hard_ |  3 |  4.5  
8 |  Unfamiliar places |  -Textbook Unit 3 [Reading] _Destination…here_ Moodle U.3 (demo) |  -**GP#2** WA #2 (**[BEST])** |  3 |  4.5  
9 |  **A world of cultures** |  -Textbook Unit 10 [Video & Discussion] Cultural identity |  [Speaking] My different cultures [Writing] graphic info. description  |  3 |  4.5  
10 |  A world of cultures & Stereotypes |  -Textbook Unit 10 [Reading] _So you want to explore the land of a thousand rhythms?_ |  -**GP#3** Moodle U.2 Stereotypes [Discussion] Subcultures |  3 |  4.5  
11 |  Stereotypes |  [Movie] + Class discussion |  Watch CCC Unit 1 video + Note-taking (handout) |  3 |  4.5  
12 |  **Hofstede’s Cultural Dimensions** |  -Individualism vs. Collectivism -Uncertainty Avoidance -Long-term orientation vs. Short-term orientation -Power distance -Masculinity vs. Femininity -Indulgence vs. Restraint |  -**GP#4** -**GP#5** |  3 |  4.5  
13 |  Cross-cultural issues |  -Hofstede’s Cultural Dimension application -Culture Shock (CS) |  [Discussion] CS experience & preparation [Board Game] Taboo  |  3 |  4.5  
14 |  **Incredible technology** |  -Textbook Unit 8 [Reading] _The science of the impossible_ [Critical thinking skill] assumptions behind texts |  [Video] ‘techie’ people [Debate] 2 sides to tech  -**GP#6** |  3 |  4.5  
15 |  Incredible technology |  -Textbook Unit 8 [Reading] _Ancient inventions_ -Sustainable Cities |  [Discussion] Online etiquette  SA #2  first deadline |  3 |  4.5  
16 |  Final exam |  in-class written exam |  ------- |  1.5 |  ---  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**ATTENDANCE, PUNCTUALITY & ASSIGNMENT/EXAM POLICIES**
Attendance is important, and students are expected to come to class **ON TIME**! (Attendance/Lateness policy will be explained in the first class.) Students who are absent for more than _half_ of total class hours without an appropriate reason will receive zero for both Attendance and Class Performance portions, and CAN** _NOT_** partake in the final exam. All required assignments must be submitted to the instructor before the due dates. Note that **_NO_** assignments will be accepted after the given deadline. **_NO_** make-up final exam will be given unless you have received the instructor’s permission in advance.
To successfully complete the course, you must prepare the assigned homework prior to class and, while in class actively participate in class discussions and pair/group work. Your final grades are determined by the following course components:
  * Participation: 20% (attendance 10% + class performance 10%)
  * Speaking assignments: 20% 
  * Writing assignments: 20%
  * Midterm project: 20%
  * Final exam: 20%


**_Participation_**
Your participation grade will be based on your attendance, homework preparation, and the contribution you make to the learning experience of others. Contribution includes your questions to the instructor, insights and comments regarding class content, answers to the instructor’s questions, and reactions to other students’ contributions _in class_. Taking part _in the online courses_ (Moodle) will also be counted as class participation. 
**_Speaking Assignments_**
There are **2** speaking assignments: a _paired_ speaking assignment and an _individual_ oral report. For the paired speaking assignment, you will conversate with one of your classmates on a given topic and record it (3~5 minutes). For the individual oral report, you will summarize one of the interesting group presentations and express your opinions about it (3 minutes). All the recordings must be uploaded to the class website. The grading rubric for the speaking assignments is available on the class website. 
**_Writing Assignments_**
There are **2** writing assignments. You will write _a formal email_ on a given topic to the instructor. Besides the email, you will respond to the writing prompts regarding a given topic (_BEST_). You will first summarize the main points; then, you will state your own opinion. This assignment should show that you have completed and thought critically about the topic provided for you. The grading rubric for the writing assignments is available on the class website. 
Plagiarism is strictly prohibited. Plagiarism is presenting someone else’s work or ideas as your own, with or without their consent, by incorporating it into your work without full acknowledgement. The University regards plagiarism as a serious matter. Cases will be investigated and penalties may range from deduction of marks to expulsion from the University.  
---  
**_Midterm Project_****(Teamwork)**
The midterm project contains a group _oral presentation_ and a group _written summary_. You and your group members will report on an assigned topic. Each group could meet with the instructor one or two weeks prior to the presentation to discuss their outline and content. The oral presentation should be approximately **30 minutes** , including a _class discussion_ session and _Q & A_ in the end of the presentation. Each group will also submit a group written summary of your presentation (about **300 words**) _on the same day of oral presentation_. The grading rubrics for both group presentation and the written summary assignment are available on the class website.
**_Final Exam_**
All materials, including the readings and information provided in class will potentially be included in the in-class final exam. It contains listening/reading tasks and vocabulary/grammar questions. 
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Textbook: _Voices_ (Book 6) by Daniel Barber & Marek Kiczkowiak (2023), National Geographic Learning
  * Resources:


VoiceTube: _https://tw.voicetube.com_
BBC Learning English: http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish
National Public Radio: https://www.npr.org/
TED talks: _https://www.ted.com/talks_
LTTC BESTEP: https://bestep.tw/
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:避免過度依賴, AI生成內容僅用作參考資料，須結合個人分析和思考來完成學習 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
https://moodle.nccu.edu.tw/
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/07/13 College English Rubrics_Speaking_Writing.pdf  收合 
  * 2025/07/13 Group Presentation Rubric _CE_.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
@Research Building **#906**
Tuesday 11:00-11:50
Thursday 12:10-13:00
(by appointment; at least 2 days in advance)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Miss Flora Huang
111601030@nccu.edu.tw
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
