國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：大學英文（一） 
#####  Course Name: College English I
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：032001261 Course No.032001261


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_38_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center 
  * 授課老師：戚大為 Instructor: DAVID ARNOLD GERICH 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五D56 Session: fri13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
College English I/II is a two-semester course, designed to help students improve their English language proficiency, be prepared for learning in a higher education environment in English, and develop the ability to engage critically with the world. While it is a four-skills (listening, speaking, reading, writing) integrated course, a particular emphasis will be placed on speaking and writing skills freshman students tend to lack most. All College English I/II courses are conducted in English.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the course, students will have improved their English language proficiency, be better prepared for learning other subjects in EMI (English as a medium of instruction) settings, and acquired familiarity with a selection of issues related to cross-cultural communication.
**_Learning outcomes for speaking_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  * Initiate, continue, and end social and academic conversations
  * Propose/ask questions appropriately and clearly in formal and academic occasions
  * Narrate an event and describe objects
  * Summarize reading and listening content
  * Express opinions regarding reading and listening materials


**_Learning outcomes for writing_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  * Write a formal email in the higher education context
  * Depict an experience and describe objects
  * Describe statistical data and diagrams
  * Write a summary of reading and listening content
  * Write a short composition


**_Learning outcomes related to intercultural awareness_**
By the end of the course, students will have improved their ability to:
  * Analyze cultural differences using relevant intercultural theories
  * Identify potential misunderstandings or conflicts in intercultural situations
  * Gain a better understanding of their own culture


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introductions and writing exercises |  Class introductions; First impressions of speaking; Writing exercise: Writing an email to your professor |  Individual Student Introductions and Email writing; HW: Read the first article + Story 1 (begin reading journal)  
2 |  Making First Impressions and Having a Social Life at the University |  **Story 1** “First Impressions” + Article: “Making a Great First Impression”  |  Group interaction; listening activities; HW: Story 2 (reading journal)  
3 |  Trying New Foods and Discussing Favorites |  Article: “Can the Japanese diet help you live to 100?” |  Group interaction; listening activities; HW: Find own article on nutritional health benefits  
4 |  Health and Nutrition for College Students |  **Story 2** “We Are Fusion Cuisine” + Writing: Academic Paragraph Model |  Group interaction; listening activities; HW: Read Story 3 (reading journal)  
5 |  How do you define success? Learning from successful people |  Writing: Academic Paragraph Model; Article on successful person |  Group interaction; listening activities; HW: Find own article on successful person  
6 |  Success and Chasing Dreams |  **Story 3** “Chasing Dreams”  |  Group interaction; listening activities; HW: Read the next article + Story 4 (reading journal)  
7 |  Making and embracing changes |  Voluntary vs. Involuntary changes; Watching a film on cross-cultural communication “The Visitor – part 1” |  Group interaction; listening activities; HW: Complete reading journal for Story 4  
8 |  **Voluntary changes and college student success** |  **Story 4** : “The 30-Day Challenge”; Article: “Do 30-Day Challenges Work?” |  Group interaction; listening activities; HW: Prepare for presentations  
9 |  **Individual Presentations** |  Presentations |  Presenting an opinion with support: article and personal experience  
10 |  **Individual Presentations** |  Presentations |  Presenting an opinion with support: article and personal experience  
11 |  Risk-taking and college student success |  **Story 5** “Taking Risks”; Article on personal risk-taking and success |  Group interaction; listening activities; HW: Read the next article + Story 6 (reading journal)  
12 |  Introduction to Cross-Cultural Communication |  Hofstede’s cultural dimensions and stereotypes; Watch cross-cultural film “The Visitor – part 2”; Learn about American immigration and prejudice from the film The Visitor |  Watch the courses in class; HW: Discussion question writing for Units 1-3  
13 |  **International relations and practical cross-cultural communication** |  **Story 6** : “The Sister Pact” |  Group interaction; listening activities; Prepare for reading final exam  
14 |  Review for final exams |  Review reading content and writing structure for both exams  |  In-class discussions in groups; listening activities; Reading interaction with the text; Discuss reading test style  
15 |  Reading Final Exam |  Complete the timed reading test; testing comprehension of information and expression of the answers in writing  |  Study and prepare for the final writing test  
16 |  Writing Final Exam |  Complete the writing test  |  In-class discussions in groups; listening activities; Reading interaction with the text  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_25%_
####  講述 Lecture
_35%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class time will be devoted to activities that allow you to practice and interact in English. To successfully complete the course, you must prepare the assigned homework prior to class and, while in class actively participate in class discussions and pair/group work. Your final grades are determined by the following course components:
**Participation (notes, attendance, tardies, in-class performance, online quizzes): 15%**
**Written Assignments (six written homework assignments/ reading journals): 15%**
**Group presentation: 30%**
**Final Reading Test: 20%**
**Final Writing Test: 20%**
**_Participation_**
Your participation grade will be based first and foremost on your **in-class performance** and contribution to the class. **Contribution** includes pro-actively asking in-class questions to the instructor, sharing insights and comments regarding class content, answering the instructor’s questions, and reacting to other students’ contributions. Most of this interaction happens orally in groups and students will be measured on how much pro-active effort they put into speaking in both pairs and groups. In addition, students will be expected to take English notes in class and turn in those notes at the end of the class to be counted for participation credit. Lastly, students are expected to be in class, so participation also includes attendance and coming on time. If students are habitually late or absent, they may be asked not to take the final exams. 
**_Attendance_** : Students must attend class. Those who miss three classes or more will fail the course. If a student is late three times for a class, it will count as an absence. 
**_Class work_** : Students will take notes in class as exercises in  _listening_ and  _speaking_. Students mostly play the role of a reporter, interviewing each other in groups or pairs and  _writing_ information from what they gather. They will then use that information to construct observations as if they were conducting their own research and writing conclusions based on their findings.
**_Reading Journals/Homework Assignments:_**
Students are expected to complete the assigned readings for homework, including short stories and teacher-assigned articles. Students must write a **reading journal** for homework to track their learning progress with a short summary of the content and reflection on what they read. In class, students will learn the vocabulary in context and discuss the content more in detail; therefore, homework is designed to be preparation for in-class activities. For out-of-class writing assignments, students will be graded on effort, how well their summary contains the important details of the story, and how deeply they understood the story content and characters. 
**_Individual presentation_**
For the oral speaking test/presentation, students will share one of the articles that they found online as part of their homework assignments in the semester. They will summarize the article and discuss their observations and opinions based on the content. In addition, they will also share a personal experience based on one of the topics that we have discussed in previous lessons. For this particular presentation, students are not allowed to use PPT so as to focus complete attention on their speaking skills. The grading rubric for the presentation will be available on the class Moodle.
**_Final Reading Exam_**
The content of this test is from the short stories and selected teacher-assigned articles that students have read and interacted with in the course. There will be questions based on the content of the readings, in which students need to write answers in complete sentences. This is _not_ a multiple-choice test but rather a test of expressing sentences in writing to answer the comprehension questions. Therefore, it is partially a writing test, revealing how well students can express the answers with clear written communication. Sentences that do not express the answers clearly will lose points.
**_Final Writing Test_**
For this test, students must write a one-paragraph composition using the academic paragraph model that they learned in class this semester. The test will be timed for one hour. The topic will be given on the day of the test, but it will cover information that students have learned throughout the entire semester. Therefore, students must use what they have learned to support the points that they express on the test.
**_Textbook:_**
Students must purchase the e-book entitled “Life at the International House: Season One.” Students may purchase the book at either Kobo.com or Amazon.com, whichever online store is more convenient. For the purposes of avoiding illegal photocopying, this book is not available in paperback. Important Note: Students are encouraged NOT to read ahead, but rather to follow the course schedule and only read one story at a time to allow deeper reflection of the ideas presented in the stories.
_Note on the use of AI, other writing help tools, or outside help:_
All AI tools, including Grammarly, other help tools, and outside help from tutors or native speakers, are not allowed to be used on homework assignments. Students who turn in assignments with perfect grammar with native-speaker-like idiomatic usage will be suspected of cheating and will receive a zero on their assignment, regardless of any other work done for that particular assignment. Students' out-of-class assignments will be compared to their in-class tests to determine if the form and structure match, accounting for the fact that out-of-class assignments tend to be better because the student has more time. If there is a great discrepancy between the two, (for example, a level-10 grammar on the out-of-class assignment, and a much lower level of grammar on the in-class test) students will be suspected of cheating and will receive a zero on the out-of-class assignment. In other words, all assignments must reflect the student's true writing ability without any other help. This also applies to presentations. Any use of AI or help tools on presentations will result in a failing grade on the presentation. Students are not allowed to receive outside help on assignments or copy a classmate's homework.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Course materials**
**_Textbook (Ebook) information:_**
**_Purchase the ebook online at Kobo.com or Amazon.com. You will need to download a free e-reader app on your phone or tablet to read the ebook._**
Title: _Life at the International House: Season One_
Author: Dave A. Gardener
Publisher: Lulu Press, 2024
**Resources**
VoiceTube: https://tw.voicetube.com
BBC Learning English: http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish
TED talks: https://www.ted.com/talks
LTTC BESTEP: https://bestep.tw/
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
禁止使用:All AI tools, including Grammarly or other help tools, are strictly forbidden to be used on homework assignments or in-class activities. Prohibited Uses
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
https://flc.nccu.edu.tw/
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
The teacher's office is located in Research Building 405. Meeting with students is by appointment only. Please email to set up an appointment or to let the teacher know when you plan to stop by.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
