國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：大學英文（一） 
#####  Course Name: College English I
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：032001661 Course No.032001661


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_38_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center 
  * 授課老師：陳綉諭 Instructor: CHEN HSIU-YU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
College English I/II is a two-semester course, designed to help students improve their English language proficiency, be prepared for learning in a higher education environment in English, and develop the ability to engage critically with the world. While it is a four-skills (listening, speaking, reading, writing) integrated course, a particular emphasis will be placed on speaking and writing skills students tend to lack most. All College English I/II courses are conducted in English.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the course, students will have improved their English language proficiency, be better prepared for learning other subjects in EMI (English as a medium of instruction) settings, and acquired familiarity with a selection of issues related to intercultural communication.
**_Learning outcomes for speaking_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  *     * Initiate, continue, and end social and academic conversations
    * Propose/ask questions appropriately and clearly on formal and academic occasions
    * Narrate an event and describe objects
    * Summarize reading and listening content 
    * Express opinions regarding reading and listening materials 


**_Learning outcomes for writing_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
  *     * Write a formal email in the higher education context
    * Depict an experience and describe objects
    * Describe statistical data and diagrams 
    * Write a summary of reading and listening content
    * Write a short composition 


**_Learning outcomes related to intercultural awareness_**
By the end of the course, students will have improved their ability to:
  *     * Analyze cultural differences using relevant intercultural theories
    * Identify potential misunderstandings or conflicts in intercultural situations
    * Gain a better understanding of their own culture


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
114-1 大一英文課程週次安排
週次  Week |  課程主題  Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀  Content & Reading |  分組活動與作業  Activities & Homework  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course overview |  Course introduction and orientation |  Icebreaker：Speed Networking Writing 1: Email your English teacher about what you wish to gain from this class.  
2 |  Icebreaking |  Making friends |  Show & Tell: Use photos and objects to find like-minded people: “Find someone who also…”  
3 |  Unit 1-1  “Above Manhattan” |  Reading on cityscapes |  Group 1- Role-play: Design a tour itinerary  
4 |  Unit 1-2  “Under Paris” |  Reading on underground Paris |  Group 2- Creative task: Make a travel show about Paris Underground  
5 |  Unit 2-1  “The Snow Patrol” |  Extreme jobs |  Group 3- Comparison: Hero story in Taiwan (poster presentation)   
6 |  Review: Visit Taipei! |  Taipei sensibility 『台北感性』 |  All groups- Task-based： Mini field trip in Taiwan Writing 2: Travel journal with photos  
7 |  Unit 2-2 “Into the Volcano” |  Volcano exploration |  Group 4- News broadcast: News on the eruption  
|  |  |   
8 |  Midterm exam (1) |  “A Day in Taipei with Us” |  Creative formats: Presentations/ Short video/ Guidebooks  
9 |  Midterm exam (2) |  “A Day in Taipei with Us” |  Creative formats: Presentations/ Short video/ Guidebooks  
10 |  Unit 3-1  “Path of the Jaguar” |  Nature & culture |  Group 5- Storytelling: Share your story of how childhood passion turns into your choice of major  
11 |  Unit 3-2  “Champion of the Underdog” |  Courage & challenges |  Group 6- Sale pitch: Design a new product for a pet animal  
12 |  Unit 4-1 “Sun Struck” |  Climate issues |  Group 7- Observe: Environment and me  
13 |  Unit 4-2  “Tracking Tsunamis” |  Disaster prevention |  Group 8- Simulation:  How do major countries work together in disaster prevention?  
14 |  Review & Reflection |  Semester reflection |  Writing 3: What is the best group activity that you like the most?  
15 |  Final exam (1) |  Oral presentation |  Multiple formats: Group (Group portfolio) presentation on your progress as a group  
16 |  Final exam (2) |  Oral presentation |  Multiple formats: Group presentation on your progress as a group (Group portfolio)  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_25%_
####  講述 Lecture
_35%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class time will be devoted to activities that allow you to practice and interact in English. To successfully complete the course, you must prepare the assigned homework prior to class and, while in class actively participate in class discussions and pair/group work. Your final grades are determined by the following course components:
  * Speaking assignments: 20%
  * Written assignments: 20%
  * Group work (vlog, reading, presentation): 20%
  * Midterm exams: 20%
  * Final exam: 20%


Participation in the course will be recognised and rewarded by extra points added to your final grades.
Note: for group assignments, individual grades will still be awarded reflecting your individual effort, participation and achievement in the group. In short, not every member of the group will receive the same grade.
**_Participation_**
Your participation grade will be based on your attendance, homework preparation, and the contribution you make to the learning experience of others. Contribution includes your in-class questions to the instructor, insights and comments regarding class content, answers to the instructor’s questions, and reactions to other students’ contributions. Participation in the course will be recognised and rewarded by extra points added to your final grades
**_In-class exercises/quizzes_**
Periodically throughout the semester, writing/listening exercises and pop quizzes will be given in class. These exercises and quizzes CANNOT be made up. 
**_Oral presentations_**
Every speaking homework needs to be uploaded to NCCU online platform.
You will give an individual oral report and a group presentation during the semester. For the group presentation, you and your group will report on your assigned reading material. The presentation should be approximately 15 minutes, followed by a 5-minute discussion. Each group should meet with the instructor two weeks prior to their presentation to discuss their topic and present their outline. The grading rubric for the speaking activities is available on the NCCU online platform.
**_Written assignments_**
Every written homework needs to be uploaded to NCCU online platform.
There will be several periodic in-class and take-home writing exercises. Your papers should show you have completed and thought seriously and critically about the readings and videos provided for you. You are also encouraged to research the topic and cite your sources. The grading rubric for the written assignments is available on the NCCU online platform.
**_Examinations_**
All materials, including the readings, handouts, and information provided in class will potentially be included on mid-term and final exams. The mid-term exam is a written test, and the final exam will be a speaking test. The speaking test requires you to answer two or more questions, each question for two minutes. The instructor will evaluate your ability to respond to the questions appropriately and to speak for an extended period of time without hesitation, deviation or repetition. The grading rubric for the speaking test is available on NCCU online platform. No make-up exams will be given unless you have received the instructor’s permission in advance.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  * Primary Textbook: _Reading and Vocabulary 4_ by Catherin Mazur-Jefferies (2014)
  * Supplementary readings: To be distributed in class.
  * Resources:


Moodle
VoiceTube: https://tw.voicetube.com
BBC Learning English: http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish
TED talks: https://www.ted.com/talks
LTTC BESTEP: https://bestep.tw/
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:學生不應假用AI生成內容作為本人學習成果或者作業，應說明使用範圍以及方式 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Online Module on Intercultural Communication: https://moodle.nccu.edu.tw/
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
陳綉諭
研究大樓721
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
陳仲維
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
