國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：環視全球－挑戰國際視野
#####  Course Name: Global Vision: Understanding the World that Revolves around you
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：042142011 Course No.042142011


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_50_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國務院 Course Department:International Affairs 
  * 授課老師：馮慕文 Instructor: FONSECA FERNANDEZ FABRICIO ANTONIO 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一78E Session: mon16-19


##  課程簡介Course Description
It is common for people around the world to hear the expression “we live in a globalized world.” Nonetheless, few students get to realize the true extent of globalization and global developments in our daily lives. Similarly, being this a core general education course, it is relevant to understand how globalization affects our different disciplines of study and poses opportunities and challenges for our future professional decisions and careers. 
This course is designed for students from different departments in our university to approach the topic of globalization using multiple theoretical and empirical instruments. Usually, people tend to associate globalization with economic affairs, mostly thinking about trade and investment. However, other types of globalization also need to be appreciated and discussed, which renders our understanding of human interactions and international relations more comprehensive. From the cultural, political and social spheres, we will also approach the different impacts of globalization in our lives, and try to understand the world that revolves around us.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Through this multi-disciplinary approach to globalization per week, and the introduction of study cases from different regions of the world, this course will make students to gain a more inclusive global vision, and to further their curiosity towards other societies, cultures, and social phenomena.
This course aims to equip students with:
*Better understanding of the complex process of globalization and its multiples effects in different areas of human and societal developments;
*An increased sense of responsibility, empathy and professionalism;
*Improved knowledge of the field of international relations and global studies, and their links to other social sciences.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Date and Topic** |  **Reading materials** |  **Activity** |  **Expected Study Time**  
---|---|---|---  
**In class** |  **Out of class**  
**Week 1 (9/1): Course overview/ Globalization and its different types** |  Melina Kolb. 2022. “What is Globalization,” Peterson Institute for International Economics, https://www.piie.com/microsites/globalization/what-is-globalization |  Lecture and discussion |  3 |  1  
**Week 2 (9/8): Globalization and the movement of people (migration and tourism)** |  Faeren Agaigbe, & Fanen Akuraga. 2025. “Globalization, Migration and Xenophobia: An Investigation of the Issues, Challenges and the Way Forward.”  _Kashere Journal of Politics and International Relations_ 3:2, 404–417. |  Lecture, short film and discussion |  3 |  2  
**Week 3 (9/15): Anti-globalism** |  Thomas B. Pepinski, et al. 2020. “Decompensating Domestically: The Political Economy of Anti-Globalism,” _Journal of European Public Policy_ , 27:7, 1090-1102. |  Lecture and discussion |  3 |  2  
**Week 4 (9/22): Globalization and climate change** |  Peter Dauvergne. 2020. “The globalization of artificial intelligence: consequences for the politics of environmentalism.” _Globalizations_ 18:2, 285–299. |  Lecture and group presentation |  3 |  2  
**Week 5 (9/29): NO CLASS** |  Teacher's Day Supplementary Holiday |  TBD |  0 |  0  
**Week 6 (10/6): NO CLASS** |  Mid-Autumn Festival |  TBD |  0 |  0  
**Week 7 (10/13): Globalization and communications (journalism and social media)** |  Jonathan Hendrickx, & Michael Opgenhaffen. 2024. “Introduction: Understanding Social Media Journalism,”  _Journalism Studies_ 25:9, 919–930. |  Lecture and group presentation |  3 |  2  
**Week 8 (10/20): Midterm exam** |  Midterm evaluation |  Test |  2 |  0  
**Week 9 (10/27): Financial globalization and inequality** |  Miroslaw Przygoda. 2022. “Tax Havens as an Inseparable Element of Regional and Global Economy,” _International Journal of Operations Management_ 2:2, 34-44. |  Lecture, documentary and group presentation |  3 |  2  
**Week 10 (11/3): Globalization and health governance** |  Vijay Kumar Chattu et al. 2024. “Pandemic treaty as an instrument to strengthen global health security: Global health diplomacy at its crux.” _Health Promotion Perspectives_ 14:1, 9-18. |  Lecture, discussion and group presentation |  3 |  2  
**Week 11 (11/10): Globalization and technological changes** |  Ritu Raj Lamsal et al. 2023. “Navigating Global Challenges: The Crucial Role of Semiconductors in Advancing Globalization,” _Journal of the Institution of Engineers (India)_ 104, 1389–1399. |  Lecture and group presentation |  3 |  2  
**Week 12 (11/17): Globalization of conflict, crime and violence** |  Adewunmi Falode. 2021. “Guns, Arms Trade and Transnational Crime in Africa.” In: Tar, U.A., Onwurah, C.P. (eds) _The Palgrave Handbook of Small Arms and Conflicts in Africa_ , pp.411-425. Palgrave Macmillan, Cham. |  Lecture and group presentation |  3 |  2  
**Week 13 (11/24): Globalization and soft power: the case of gastrodiplomacy** |  Dennis Salazar. 2024. “The multiple edges of gastrodiplomacy: the paradoxes of the Basque case,”  _Place Branding and Public Diplomacy_ 20, 244–252. |  Lecture, discussion and group presentation |  3 |  2  
**Week 14 (12/1): Global-scale social movements and feminism** |  Jesse C. Starkey et al. 2019. “#MeeToo Goes Global: Media Framing of Silence Breakers in Four National Settings,” _Journal of Communication Inquiry_ , 43:4, 437-461. |  Lecture and group presentation |  3 |  2  
**Week 15 (12/8): Cultural globalization and social trends: the case of sports** |  Aaron Ettinger. 2023. “Saudi Arabia, sports diplomacy and authoritarian capitalism in world politics,”  _International Journal of Sport Policy and Politics_ 15:3, 531–547. |  Lecture, special activity and group presentation |  3 |  2  
**Week 16 (12/15): Final exam** |  Final evaluation |  Test |  2 |  0  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_45%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
_1. Attendance and Participation: 30%_
Attendance is a key element in the course, as well as constant participation by students. Throughout the semester, students are required to read the indicated materials, as well as trying to read international news from different media outlets in both Chinese and English. The instructor will encourage students to participate and share their thoughts on the content of the readings. For the first couple of hours, the instructor will provide a lecture on the main ideas and concepts for the selected topic of the day, followed by the presentation of a specific study case to illustrate the main points of the lecture. For the final hour of the class, students are expected to present a discuss another study case previously consulted with the instructor. It is expected that through these activities, students can also improve their critical thinking, oral and writing presentation skills.
_2. Presentation: 20%_
Depending on the number of students enrolled in this course, the instructor will ask them to form teams and each one will be making one presentation during the semester. Each team will be selecting a topic from the syllabus, and prepare a presentation based on a selected study case from an assigned region and country. The number of teams and their members will be defined in the first couple of weeks, depending on the total number of students enrolled in this course. Also, depending on the number of members per team, the average length recommended for each presentation will be determined. The presentation will take place during the third hour, and will be offered critical feedback by our TA, who will also be in charge of discussion of the topic for each week. The team can use audiovisual materials, such as PowerPoint, Canva or Prezi files (preferably in PDF format) during the presentation; as well as interactive activities at the end of it, to engage their audience, such as the website Kahoot. The score of the presentation will consist in: organization and coordination of the team members (20pts.); content and coherence of the presentation (40pts.); performance of team members during the presentation and time management (40pts.).
_3. Midterm Exam: 20%_
_4. Final Exam: 30%_
Students from all departments are welcome to take this course. This course will be taught in English; therefore, students are encouraged to take this opportunity to improve their English language skills, as well as to increase their familiarity with topics related to International Relations and Globalization.
* Cell phones shall be turned off or put on silent mode during class. Laptops or tablets are not permitted, except with prior permission from the instructor.
*Make-up presentations will not be granted, except in case of emergency and in all cases require a note from your doctor.
* The instructor does not accept late assignments.
* This class has a zero-tolerance policy against plagiarism. All assignments are required to be in conformity with NCCU regulations.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Different papers from specialized journals and publications will be selected to serve as the readings for each week, as included in the weekly schedule above. An additional list of supplementary reading materials will be provided at the beginning of the semester in our Moodle platform.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:The use of AI will be limited to the initial steps in the preparation of the team-based presentation, and its answers need to be contrasted with the team's own research Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Tuesdays 11am, or by appointment 
General Building of Colleges, North Wing, 9th floor.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
