國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：氣候變遷對社會韌性的挑戰
#####  Course Name: Climate Resilience in Motion
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：044120001 Course No.044120001


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_50_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學院 Course Department:International College of Innovation 
  * 授課老師：呂采穎、杜文苓、趙家緯 Instructor: Lu Tsai Ying/TU WEN-LING/CHAO CHIA-WEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五78E Session: fri16-19


##  課程簡介Course Description
As IPCC notes, reaching net zero anthropogenic CO2 emissions in the next three decades is a requirement to limit warming to 1.5 °C. It would require rapid and far- reaching system transitions in energy, land, urban infrastructure, and industrial systems, which are unprecedented in terms of scale. However, this Hercules ambition is becoming mainstream, countries with net-zero targets together represent 88% of global emissions. Taiwan also announced net-zero roadmap and strategy at Spring, 2022, and make it legally binding. But the fundamental change in all sectors needs a wide portfolio of mitigation options and a significant upscaling of investments.
This course will integrate social and natural science perspectives on the interpretation of climate change impacts and risks, and will progressively guide students towards an interdisciplinary understanding of the topic through a weekly theme. Several interactive tools will be introduced during the course, including 2050 calculator, energy policy simulator, and climate board game, to deepen the knowledge of crucial policy instruments, and role of social engagement.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Facing climate change's cross-cutting and transboundary impacts, several countries have adopted net-zero targets and corresponding mitigation actions to cope with the situation. Yet, how to go further in terms of “adaptive” capacities and actions so that social systems and infrastructures can be equipped with absorptive, adaptive, and transformative capacities is the primary concern of this course. By inviting relevant experts to discuss the topic, students will be able to gain a cross-disciplinary and multi-faceted understanding of climate resilience and consider the possibility of practical action through group discussions and reports.
Through lectures and in-class discussions, students will learn the different aspects of climate adaptation strategies and be able to conduct a preliminary policy assessment.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Wee k** |  **Topic** |  **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Kick-off week: course overview |  |   
2 |  Climate science and politics | 
  * Coen, D. R. (2019). Climate in motion: Science, empire, and the problem of scale. University of Chicago Press.

|   
3 |  Mitigation and adaptation | 
  * Aldieri, L., Gatto, A., & Vinci, C. P. (2021). Evaluation of energy resilience and adaptation policies: An energy efficiency analysis. Energy Policy, 157, 112505.
  * Falkenmark, M., Wang-Erlandsson, L., & Rockström, J. (2019). Understanding of water resilience in the Anthropocene. Journal of Hydrology X, 2, 100009.
  * Lai, H. L., & Devine‐Wright, P. (2024). Imagining and emplacing net zero industrial clusters: A critical analysis of stakeholder discourses. Geo: Geography and Environment, 11(1), e00139. 
  * Rivera González, Joyce, and Michelle Hak Hepburn. 2022. "What Resilience Does." AnthroPod, Fieldsights, February 17. https://culanth.org/fieldsights/what-resilience-does

|   
4 |  Mining Green Futures for Others? Responsible Critical Mineral Supply Chains | 
  * Deberdt, R., & Le Billon, P. (2021). Conflict minerals and battery materials supply chains: A mapping review of responsible sourcing initiatives.  _The Extractive Industries and Society_ ,  _8_(4), 100935.

|   
5 |  Emissions Trends and Drivers | 
  * Introducing Global Emission Profile and characteristic

|  Database exploration  
6 |  |  National Holiday [No class] |   
7 |  Climate Scenario and Emission Pathway | 
  * Exploring the future through scenarios and pathways

|  Climate Scenario Simulator  
8 |  |  National Holiday [No class] |   
9 |  Industrial Decarbonization  | 
  * The mitigation measures for energy-intensive industry

|   
10 |  Just Transition | 
  * The origin and development of just transition

|  Board Game  
11 |  Climate litigation | 
  * Global Legal Group. (2025). Environment & climate change laws and regulations 2025.
  * https://www.example.com

|   
12 |  Climate Journalism | 
  * Schäfer, M. S., & Painter, J. (2021). Climate journalism in a changing media ecosystem: Assessing the production of climate change‐related news around the world. Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Climate Change, 12(1), e675.

|   
13 |  Climate Disaster Prevention |  Rathore, V. (2016). Technology in disaster management and disaster risk reduction: A review of applications. Technology, 6(4). |  [Board game]  
14 |  Demand side solution |  Demand side solution to achieve net-zero, focus on building and mobility  |  Interactive Group Discussion  
15 |  |  Group presentation week-I |   
16 |  |  Group presentation week-II |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_25%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  1. Weekly participation: 50 pts
    1. Attendance: 30 pts
    2. Participation in group discussion: 20 pts
  2. Final group presentation: 50 pts


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
• Marwah, R., & Singh, S. (Eds.). (2023). Politics of climate change: Crises, conventions and cooperation. World Scientific.  
• Coen, D. R. (2019). Climate in motion: Science, empire, and the problem of scale. University of Chicago Press.  
• Teske, S. Achieving the Paris climate agreement goals: global and regional 100% renewable energy scenarios with non-energy GHG pathways for +1.5°C and +2°C. Springer International Publishing (2019), 10.1007/978-3-030-05843-2 (Open Access)   
• IPCC, 2022: Summary for Policymakers. In: Climate Change 2022: Mitigation of Climate Change. Contribution of Working Group III to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change [P.R. Shukla, J. Skea, R. Slade, A. Al Khourdajie, R. van Diemen, D. McCollum, M. Pathak, S. Some, P. Vyas, R. Fradera, M. Belkacemi, A. Hasija, G. Lisboa, S. Luz, J. Malley, (eds.)]. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK and New York, NY, USA. doi: 10.1017/9781009157926.001 (Chinese Version in https://smctw.tw/12664/ )  
• Bergero, C., Binsted, M., Chia-Wei Chao, Kuen-Tien Chou, Cheng-Cheng Wu, Yang Wei,Yarlagadda, B., McJeon HC., 2020. An Integrated Assessment of a Low Coal Low Nuclear Future Energy System for Taiwan. Energy and Climate Change. Online First https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egycc.2020.100022.  
• Energy Policy Solutions https://energypolicy.solutions  

####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Use AI tools cautiously, cite all outputs, and verify content accuracy to ensure academic integrity and avoid bias or errors. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Make appointments through email.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
