國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：東協的整合與發展
#####  Course Name: The ASEAN Integration and Development
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：044M01001 Course No.044M01001


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_1.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_50_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：東南亞語系 Course Department:Southeast Asian Languages and Cultures 
  * 授課老師：黎氏仁 Instructor: LE THI-NHAM 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五56 Session: fri14-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to provide an overview for Southeast Asia in term of the historical development and integration processes of the ASEAN community, prospects and challenges. We explore the variations in regional growth of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) member within 10 countries (Vietnam, Thailand, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Indonesia, Brunei, Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar). This course is aimed to bring students into a deeper approach about ASEAN community. A map will be constructed throughout the course with selective socio- economic conditions for comparison and better understanding.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業能力Professional Competence
  * B. 博雅精神The Essence of Liberal Arts
  * C. 思辨與創新能力Speculation and Innovation Capacity
  * D. 自主發展Self-Development
  * E. 公民素養Citizenship Education
  * F. 社會關懷Social Concern
  * G. 溝通及團隊合作Communication and Teamwork
  * H. 國際移動能力International Mobility


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Students will benefit through the insightful knowledge and the sharing of best practices. By the end of the course, students will be able to obtain the following knowledge:
  * Identity and diversity of SEA: geopolitical importance and local uniqueness
  * The four distinct waves of cultural influence: China, India, European Colonizers, and the Islam
  * Social transformation after the Western colonialism
  * Historical development of ASEAN: Journey to community building
  * Rationales of ASEAN community
  * ASEAN Political-Security Community (APSC)
  * ASEAN Economic Community (AEC): Milestones
  * ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community (ASCC)
  * ASEAN opportunities and challenges
  * Taiwan's New Southbound Policy toward the ASEAN economies


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**每週課程內容與授課進度**  
---  
**授課日期** |  **課程主題** |  **課程內容綱要** |  **授課時數**  
第 1 次 09 月 5 日 |  Southeast Asia: An overview | 
  * An introduction to the course
  * Geographic location
  * The Four waves:


  * The Indian wave
  * The Chinese wave
  * The Muslim wave
  * The Western wave (European traders)


  * Ethnic diversity
  * Religious diversity
  * The Asian immigrants in Southeast Asia


  * Reading material: The ASEAN Miracle, A Catalyst for Peace by Kishore Mahbubani and Jeffery Sng, page 15-35.
  * Reading material: Southeast Asia, An Introductory History by Milton Osborne, page 1-18 and P.112

|  **實體****2****小時** **In-class: two hours**  
第 2 次 09月 12 日 |  Southeast Asia: An overview | 
  * The European colonial rules: Advance and challenges in Southeast Asia
  * The legacies of Western colonialism in Southeast Asia


  * Reading material: Southeast Asia, An Introductory History by Milton Osborne, page 40-93.

|  **實體****2****小時** **In-class: two hours**  
第 3次 09月 19 日 |  Association of Southeast Asian Nations | 
  * What is an ASEAN?
  * ASEAN: Community building


  * Reading material: Southeast Asia in Search of an ASEAN Community: Insights from the Former ASEAN Secretary-general, Book by Rodolfo Severino Jr. , page 1-37

|  **實體****2****小時** **In-class: two hours**  
第 4 次 09月26 日 |  Association of Southeast Asian Nations | 
  * An ASEAN Charter
  * Membership of ASEAN
  * The ASEAN roles


  * Reading material: Southeast Asia in Search of an ASEAN Community: Insights from the Former ASEAN Secretary-general, Book by Rodolfo Severino Jr., page 161-206.

|   
第5 次 10月03 日 |  The ASEAN: Three Pillars | 
  * ASEAN Political-Security Community (APSC): key characteristics


  * Reading material: ASEAN Political-Security Community Blueprint, issued by ASEAN Secretariat, ISBN 978-602-6392-35-0
  * The ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community (ASCC), issued by ASEAN Secretariat, ISBN 978-602-0980-83-6

|  **實體****2****小時** **In-class: two hours**  
第6 次 10月 17日 |  The ASEAN: Three Pillars | 
  * The milestones of ASEAN Economic Community (AEC)
  * The AEC: Aims and purposes


  * Reading material: ASEAN Economic Community Blueprint 2025, issued by ASEAN Secretariat

|  **實體****2****小時** **In-class: two hours**  
第 7 次 10月24 日 |  Taiwan – Southeast Asia Cooperation | 
  * Historical development between Taiwan and SEA cooperation
  * The Taiwan “Go-South” Policy in the previous administrations
  * Taiwan New Southbound Policy
    * Target nations
    * Rationale for NSP
    * Resource sharing
    * Regional connectivity
  * Reading material: Ngeow Chow Bing (2015). Taiwan’s Go South Policy, pp. 96-126
  * Reading material: Alan Hao Yang, Hsin-Huang Michael Hsiao (2016). Tai-shang (Taiwan Business) in Southeast Asia: Profile and Issues.

|  **實體****2****小時** **In-class: two hours**  
第 8次 10月 31日 |  Final exam |  **實體****2****小時** **In-class: two hours**  
**Textbooks and references** |  [1] Beeson, Mark (ed.) (2009) Contemporary Southeast Asia, 2nd edition, Basingstoke, Hampshire: Palgrave MacMillan. [2] Tarling, Nicholas (ed.) (1992) The Cambridge History of Southeast Asia, two volumes, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. [3] Southeast Asia in Search of an ASEAN community. [4] Rodolfo C. Severino (2016). ASEAN Economic Community. [5] Kiki Verico. (2017). The future of the ASEAN Economic Integration. [6] Das, Sanchita. (2016). Can the US-ASEAN Connect Initiative Create Stronger US-ASEAN Economic Relations? [7] Min- Hua Chiang. (2019). China–ASEAN economic relations after establishment of free trade area, pp. 267-290. [8] Stephen and Chery. (2019). China and The ASEAN Economies: Interdependence and Rivalry, PP.381-394 [9] Vilavong (2016). Global production sharing and trade patterns in ASEAN. [10] Ngeow Chow Bing (2015). Taiwan’s Go South Policy, pp. 96-126. [11] Alan Hao Yang, Hsin-Huang Michael Hsiao (2016). Tai-shang (Taiwan Business) in Southeast Asia: Profile and Issues.  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_25%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
The final grades are determined by 2 parts as following:
  * Attendance: 40%
  * Written exam: 60%  
  
Please note: Active participation in class discussions, especially during the Q&A sections, may enhance your final grade


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Sources:
[1] Beeson, Mark (ed.) (2009) Contemporary Southeast Asia, 2nd edition, Basingstoke, Hampshire: Palgrave MacMillan.
[2] Tarling, Nicholas (ed.) (1992) The Cambridge History of Southeast Asia, two volumes, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
[3] Southeast Asia in Search of an ASEAN community.
[4] Rodolfo C. Severino (2016). ASEAN Economic Community.
[5] Kiki Verico. (2017). The future of the ASEAN Economic Integration.
[6] Das, Sanchita. (2016). Can the US-ASEAN Connect Initiative Create Stronger US-ASEAN Economic Relations?
[7] Min- Hua Chiang. (2019). China–ASEAN economic relations after establishment of free trade area, pp. 267-290.
[8] Stephen and Chery. (2019). China and The ASEAN Economies: Interdependence and Rivalry, PP.381-394
[9] Vilavong (2016). Global production sharing and trade patterns in ASEAN.
[10] Ngeow Chow Bing (2015). Taiwan’s Go South Policy, pp. 96-126.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
黎氏仁 老師
研究大樓 #702
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
