國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：選修英文：學術聽說訓練（ETP專班）
#####  Course Name: English Elective: Academic_Listening_&_Speaking（ETP）
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：070172021 Course No.070172021


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center 
  * 授課老師：郭曉蓉 Instructor: KUO HSIAO JUNG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course, which is conducted in English, is designed for high-intermediate to advanced English learners. It is based on a content-based syllabus, utilizing lectures on topics from different academic disciplines and related reading materials. The authentic content provides both a context for the practice of important language skills and a basis for the exploration of high-interest topics for learners. The course covers diverse issues and integrates vocabulary, grammar, listening and speaking skills necessary for academic success. Throughout the semester, students are encouraged to improve their academic listening and speaking ability by listening to lectures and participating in discussions, as well as practicing note-taking and summarizing.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course will help students to
- build discipline- or topic-related vocabulary 
- improve listening skills both in everyday and academic settings
- develop learning strategies and study skills for academic success
- reinforce academic discussion and communicative skills
- develop effective note-taking and summarizing skills
- deliver informative talks / presentation in today’s academic and professional world
- expand critical thinking
- be aware of cultural differences and similarities
**_Learning Outcomes for Lecture Comprehension and Note-taking_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
- predict lecture content and organization 
- listen for the lecturer’s main points and for the general organizational framework
- make guesses when information is missed 
- evaluate and decide what is and is not important during a lecture
- note key words, and use abbreviations and symbols
- organize information and visually represent the relationship between ideas
- note most numbers and statistics
**_Learning Outcomes for Informative Talks & Presentation_**
By the end of the course, while presenting, students will be able to:
- consider the audience and have clear objectives
- have a clear structure and link the parts together
- address academic issues successfully with a variety of resources
- consider the timing
- speak clearly at the right speed
- use appropriate language
- maintain eye contact with the audience
- use body language effectively
- appear confident and positive
- make clear visual aids to support messages
- use the equipment professionally
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |   
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course introduction |  Small talk; Academic skills: presenting effectively |  Warm-up; orientation |   
2 |  Communication | 
# How to speak so that people want to listen
|  Speaking strategies; Note-taking skills  |   
3 |  Tourism |  Overtourism: How to be a responsible tourist |  Listening and speaking exercises; Preparing for individual presentation |   
4 |  Public speaking | 
## TED's secret to great public speaking
|  Listening and speaking exercises; Preparing for individual presentation; quiz 1 |   
5 |  Psychology |  How to stay calm when you know you’ll be stressed  |  Listening and speaking exercises; Preparing for individual presentation |   
6 |  Health |  Why we need mental health days |  Listening and speaking exercises; Preparing for individual presentation; quiz 2 |   
7 |  Life |  Less stuff, more happiness |  Listening and speaking exercises; Preparing for individual presentation |   
8 |  Public speaking |  Impromptu speech |  Impromptu speech; quiz 3 |   
9 |  Midterm presentation 1 |  Individual presentation |  Individual presentation |   
10 |  Midterm presentation 2 |  Individual presentation |  Individual presentation |   
11 |  Media Literacy |  The Power (and Responsibility) of Information |  Listening and speaking exercises; Preparing for individual presentation |   
12 |  Business |  New trend in marketing research |  Listening and speaking exercises; group discussion |   
13 |  Science |  The placebo effect |  Listening and speaking exercises; Preparing for individual presentation; ; quiz 4 |   
14 |  Art |  The art of graffiti |  Listening and speaking exercises; Preparing for individual presentation |   
15 |  Discussion skills |  Discussion skills |  Listening and speaking exercises; group discussion; quiz 5 |   
16 |  Final presentation |  Peer evaluation; Panel discussion |  Preparing for final project |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
To successfully complete the course, you must take all quizzes and participate in assigned activities. Your final grades are determined by the following course components: 
  * Participation & Attendance: 20%
  * Journals and assignments: 20%
  * Individual speeches: 25%
  * Midterm speech: 15%
  * Final presentation: 20%


**ATTENDANCE, PUNCTUALITY & ASSIGNMENT POLICIES**
Attendance is mandatory. Students who are absent for more than 1/3 of total class hours without an appropriate reason are prohibited from taking the final exam and receive a mark of zero for the final exam. All required assignments must be submitted to the instructor on or before the due dates. Late assignments will be given a lower grade unless there is an acceptable explanation for their late submission. No make-up exams for the mid-term and final exams. 
**ASSIGNMENTS & EXAMINATIONS**
**Quizzes/In-class exercises**
At regular times throughout the semester, lecture-listening and note-taking exercises and pop quizzes will be given in class. These exercises and quizzes CANNOT be made up. See the attachment for the grading rubric for note-taking exercises.
**Assignments**
Throughout the semester, you will give three or four talks on a topic discussed in class and post your peer feedback on the course platform. Each talk on the academic field will focus on a relevant subtopic of your choice, last five minutes, and include PowerPoint slides. Before or after the class, you need to upload the slides and then give your online feedback on your partners’ talks after this activity. More details will be provided in class.
**Group presentations**
You will give one group presentation at the end of the semester. For the group presentation, each group will conduct a panel discussion on a subject-matter topic containing numbers and statistics. The panel discussion should last approximately 20 minutes, followed by a five-minute discussion. While presenting, each group will be evaluated by the instructor (see grading rubric attached) as well as by their peers. After the presentation, each group needs to upload the PowerPoint slides to Moodle. Each student is encouraged to give their feedback on the task according to a peer evaluation form, which will be available on the course platform. 
**Examinations**
The exams contain a listening test and an integrated speaking test. The listening test aims to test the ability of students to use appropriate strategies to understand lectures. In the integrated speaking test, you will be required to answer one independent and three integrated questions as in the speaking section in TOEFL. You need to demonstrate your ability to respond to the questions clearly and coherently and the ability to accurately convey the information about what you have read or listened to. See the attachment for the grading rubric for the integrated speaking test.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  * Textbook: To be posted on Moodle for students to download and print.
  * References:


1. Dunkel, P. A. & Pialorsi, F. (2014): _Listening & Notetaking Skills, Level 3_. (4th ed.) Cengage Learning.
2. Maclntyre, P. (2013): _Pathways 4, Listening, Speaking, and Critical Thinking_. National Geographic Learning, a part of Cengage Learning.
3. Sarosy, P. & Sherak, K (2013):_Lecture Ready 2_. (2nd ed.)Oxford University Press.
4. Lebauer, R. S. (2010): _Learn to Listen Listen to Learn 1 & 2 _(3rd ed.). Pearson Education.
5. Beglar, D. & Murray, N. (2009): _Contemporary Topics 3_. (3rd ed.) Pearson Education.
6. Preiss, S. (2004): _NorthStar: Listening and Speaking_ , Advanced Second Edition. New York: Pearson Education, Inc.
  * Supplementary readings: To be distributed in class
  * Resources:


1. TED talks: https://www.ted.com/talks
2. BBC Learning English: _http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish_
3. VoiceTube: https://tw.voicetube.com
4. VOA Learning English: https://learningenglish.voanews.com/
5. Elllo: http://www.elllo.org/
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Acknowledge and cite the output of generative AI tools in your work to avoid plagiarism. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Moodle: http://moodle.nccu.edu.tw/
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Research building #907
By appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
N/A
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
