國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：選修英文：英文寫作（ETP專班）
#####  Course Name: English Elective:Essay_Writing（ETP）
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：070173011 Course No.070173011


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_10_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center 
  * 授課老師：戚大為 Instructor: DAVID ARNOLD GERICH 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is an introduction to academic writing and literacy through the fundamentals of essay writing with an emphasis on genre knowledge and audience awareness. The course, which is conducted in English, incorporates lectures and discussion sessions making class-time full of activity. Writing assignments provide students opportunities to practice writing skills while exploring current issues through their own interests and experiences. Students learn ways to approach writing assignments, how to find an interesting topic, and how to go through the process of writing a powerful essay in English. An assigned textbook is used as a guide, but other materials and references will be made available on the course blog.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
In this class, learners will practice writing as a process of invention and revision that anyone can master with effort. Students will review basic paragraph structure and then learn about common rhetorical forms. They will practice several types of essays including narrative, comparison/contrast, cause-effect, and argument. Literacy skills are incorporated as learners search online sources, learn to cite them, and create a reference list. In sum, students will gain a foundational understanding of English composition and learn the writing process as they develop their own writing and revising toolkit. 
By the end of the semester, those who have satisfactorily completed the course requirementswill be able to identify a compelling topic, decide how to treat it in writing, and compose a strong and thoughtful essay to explore or argue it. Students will be familiar with elements of good academic compositions including organization, thesis statements, and clarity of ideas. Finally, students will learn the mechanics of academic writing such as document format, and citations and reference lists.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
◎The following schedule will be adjusted to accommodate the progress of the class.
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  Course Orientation | 
  * Introduction to the course
  * Getting to know one another through in-class writing and discussion
  * Learning business writing and email correspondence

| 
  * Read assigned texts 
  * Revise in-class writing and submit
  * Unit 3 Exercises

|  3 |  4.5  
2 |  Paragraph writing foundation | 
  * Unit 1~Unit 2 in the textbook


  * Paragraph structure, unity and coherence, and using outside sources

|  Unit 3 Exercises |  3 |  4.5  
3 |  From paragraph to essay | 
  * Unit 4: Exploring the essay


  * Exercises on sentence structures


  * Begin writing own expository essay

| 
  * Complete the initial pre-writing for the expository essay on benefits

|  3 |  4.5  
4 |  Expository or classification essay | 
  * Writing the body


  * Outlining and analysis of models


  * Developing a classification essay

| 
  * Write the expository essay on benefits

|  3 |  4.5  
5 |  Mastering the expository essay; improving thesis statements | 
  * Analyzing thesis statements and understanding the concept of writing for a target reader
  * Rewriting introductions and conclusions
  * Parallelism and Sentence Problems – Unit 10

|  Complete Unit 11 Practice Exercises; Unit 10 |  3 |  4.5  
6 |  Process Essay: Educational and Informative | 
  * Process speaking activities
  * Learning the differences between educational and informative process essays
  * Practice teaching your reader how to perform a task in both speaking and writing

| 
  * Begin research and pre-writing for an educational process essay
  * Unit 5 Practice exercises

|  3 |  4.5  
7 |  Composing the Process Essay | 
  * Analysis of the model for an educational process essay
  * Unit 5 Exercises

| 
  * Complete the process essay

|  3 |  4.5  
8 |  Grammar Workshop – Process essay error correction and Noun Clauses | 
  * Editing and revising sentences in the Process Essay
  * Noun Clauses Unit 11

| 
  * Complete Unit 13 Practice Exercises; Unit 6 Preview the model

|  3 |  4.5  
9 |  Cause-Effect Essay | 
  * Presentation and analysis of cause-effect examples 
  * Lecture and sample on cause-effect essays
  * Exercises on cause-effect reasoning

| 
  * Unit 6 Exercises and prewriting exercises for a Cause-Effect essay

|  3 |  4.5  
10 |  Cause-Effect Essays | 
  * The process of composing the Cause-Effect essay step-by-step


  * Models of cause-effect essays

| 
  * Complete the Cause-Effect essay, Prepare for the in-class essay exam

|  3 |  4.5  
11 |  **Cause-Effect Essay, In-class Exam** | 
  * Complete a Cause-Effect essay in class, including brainstorm, detailed outline, and essay

|  |  |   
12 |  Compare Contrast Essay | 
  * Compare-contrast speaking exercises
  * Using compare-contrast signal words

| 
  * Compare-Contrast essay prewriting exercises

|  3 |  4.5  
13 |  Compare Contrast Essay | 
  * Unit 7 Exercises 
  * Compare and contrast two compare-contrast essays
  * Begin outlining your own

| 
  * Complete the compare-contrast essay

|  3 |  4.5  
14 |  Argumentative Essay | 
  * Developing an objective approach to considering an argument in speaking and writing
  * Choosing a side to support
  * Learning how to support your argument with basic organization

|  Research pros and cons for an Argumentative Essay; **Rewriting Assignment Due** |  3 |  4.5  
15 |  Argumentative Essay | 
  * Unit 8 Exercises 
  * Analysis of argumentation examples and models
  * Discussion of student essay examples
  * Demonstration and discussion of essay revisions

| 
  * Study for final writing exam

|  3 |  4.5  
16 |  **Final writing exam** |  Write either a Compare-Contrast or Argumentative Essay in class |  |  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_10%_
####  其他： Others: In-class writing practice 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
All materials, including the written text, handouts, and any information spoken in class or written on the board,are expected to be reflected in your work. Take notes, and study the textbook and handouts. Keep all of the work you do during the course until after the final grades have been announced. Your final grades will be determined by the following course components:
**Participation/Homework assignments: 15%**
**Expository/Benefits Essay (out-of-class): 25%**
**Process Essay (out-of-class): 25%**
**Cause-Effect (in-class test): 35%**
All AI tools, including Grammarly, other help tools, and outside help from tutors or native speakers, are not allowed to be used on homework assignments. Students who turn in assignments with perfect grammar and native-speaker-like idiomatic usage will be suspected of cheating and will receive a zero on their assignment, regardless of any other work done for that particular assignment. Students' out-of-class assignments will be compared to their in-class tests to determine if the form and structure match, accounting for the fact that out-of-class assignments tend to be better because the student has more time. If there is a great discrepancy between the two, (for example, a level-10 grammar on the out-of-class assignment, and a much lower level of grammar on the in-class assignment) students will be suspected of cheating and will receive a zero on the out-of-class assignment. In other words, all assignments must reflect the student's true writing ability without any other help.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Textbook:
  * Oshima, Alice (2014). _Longman Academic Writing Series 4: Paragraphs to Essays_ , Fifth Edition


Resources:
  * Great Writing: Great Essays 4 (fourth edition) ISBN: 978-1-285-19494-3


Published by: National Geographic Learning/Cengage Learning
  * Dictionary/Thesaurus


http://www.dictionary.com/
  * OXFORD Collocation Dictionary


http://www.freecollocation.com/
  * The Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA)


https://corpus.byu.edu/coca/
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
禁止使用:All AI writing tools, including Grammarly or other help tools are forbidden to be used on any assignment.  Prohibited Uses
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Research Building 405 - Please contact me to schedule an appointment.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
