國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際關係理論
#####  Course Name: International Relations Theory
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：070283001 Course No.070283001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_15_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國務院 Course Department:International Affairs 
  * 授課老師：黃瓊萩 Instructor: HUANG CHIUNG-CHIU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
The primary function of theory in the field of International Relations (IR) is to offer a lens through which scholars can investigate and critically analyze events, issues, and even the everyday political dynamics that shape interactions among nations. This course is designed not only to introduce students to the major schools of thought in IR theory and their significance in the evolution of the discipline, but also to demonstrate how these theoretical frameworks can be applied to real-world contexts. Beyond offering a foundation in mainstream IR theories, the course aims to guide students through the development of contemporary international studies, including key debates, emerging trends, and theoretical shifts that have unfolded since the turn of the millennium. More importantly, the course encourages students to cultivate a deeper understanding of the complex global landscape—learning not just to study international affairs, but to approach them with empathy, critical insight, and a commitment to thoughtful analysis. By engaging with diverse perspectives and current global challenges, students are expected to develop the intellectual tools needed to interpret, question, and respond to the world around them in informed and compassionate ways.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The main goals of this course include:
  1. Students will have the basic knowledge of the mainstream IR theories;
  2. Each student develops her/his own perspective based on the theoretical approach that attracted her/him and knows how to apply this approach;
  3. Students can defend their own stands when discussing and debating issues of international affairs by applying any specific theoretical approach;
  4. Students pass the tests and utilize what they learned from this course when writing their MA theses.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Students are expected to be able to answer the questions regarding the special characteristics of diverse IR mainstream theories, make comparisons among the IR theories, and apply the theoretical approach to analyze issues assigned.
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  **Sep/4** **Introduction of the Course** | 
  1. Christian Reus-Smit and Duncan Snidal, “Between Utopia and Reality: The Practical Discourses of International Relations,” in _The Oxford Handbook of International Relations_ , edited by Reus-Smit, Christian, and Duncan Snidal. : Oxford University Press, 2008-08-14. 
  2. Stephen McGlinchey, Foundation of International Relations, https://www.e-ir.info/publication/foundations-of-international-relations/

|  Introducing the structure of the course, the basic understanding of the IR theory, and the purpose of this course. |  3 |  24  
2 |  **Sep/11** **Realism and Its Critiques** | 
  1. Donnelly, Jack, 2000, _Realism and International Relations_. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Chapter 1. The Realist Tradition
  2. Donnelly, _Realism and International Relations_. Chapter 2. Human Nature and State Motivation
  3. Donnelly, _Realism and International Relations_. Chapter 3. Anarchy, Hierarchy and Order

|  Discussing and debating Realism in IR.  In addition to the required readings, you might get ideas from the following reference readings: William Wohlforth, “Realism” & Jack Donnelly, “The Ethics of Realism,” in _The Oxford Handbook of International Relations_ , edited by Reus-Smit, Christian, and Duncan Snidal. Oxford University Press. |  3 |  24  
3 |  **Sep/18** **Liberalism and Neo-liberal Institutionalism** | 
  1. Burchill, S. et al.. 2005. Theories of International Relations. Hampshire: Palgrave Macmillan. Chapter 3. “Liberalism” by S. Burchill.
  2. Robert O. Keohane and Lisa L. Martin, 1995. “The Promise of Institutionalist Theory.” _International Security_ 20 (1): 39-51.
  3. Tana Johnson and Andrew Heiss, "Liberal Institutionalism," chap. 8 in _International Organization and Global Governance_ , 2nd ed., ed. Thomas G. Weiss and Rorden Wilkinson (London: Routledge, 2018), 123–34.

|  Discussing and debating Liberalism and Its Families in IR. In addition to the required readings, you might get ideas from the following reference readings: Arthur A. Stein, “Neoliberal Institutionalism,” James Richardson, “The Ethics of Neoliberal Institutionalism,” Andrew Moravcsik, “The New Liberalism,” and Gerry Simpson, “The Ethics of New Liberalism.” All in _The Oxford Handbook of International Relations_ , edited by Reus-Smit, Christian, and Duncan Snidal. Oxford University Press. |  3 |  24  
4 |  **Sep/25** **Constructivism** | 
  1. Hoft, Ted. 1998. “The Promise of Constructivism in International Relations Theory.” _International Security_ 23 (1): 171-200.
  2. Burchill, S. et al.. 2005. Theories of International Relations. Hampshire: Palgrave Macmillan. Chapter 8. “Constructivism” by Christian Reus-Smit.
  3. Copeland, Dale. 2000. “Review: The Constructivist Challenge to Structural Realism: A Review Essay.” _International Security_ 25 (2): 187-212.

|  Discussing and debating the three Constructivist approach in IR. In addition to the required readings, you might get ideas from the following reference readings: Ian Hurd, “Constructivism” & Richard Price “The Ethics of Constructivism,” in _The Oxford Handbook of International Relations_ , edited by Reus-Smit, Christian, and Duncan Snidal. Oxford University Press. |  3 |  24  
5 |  **Oct/2** **Reflections and Implications of the Mainstreams IRT** | 
  1. Burchill, S. et al.. 2005. Theories of International Relations. Hampshire: Palgrave Macmillan. Chapter 1. “Introduction” by Scott Burchill and Andrew Linklater.

|  Discussion will be focused on the key issues mentioned in these articles and their relevance to today’s IR and its major concerns |  3 |  24  
6 |  **Oct/9** **Critical Theories, Post Modernism and Feminism in IR** | 
  1. Richard Shapcott, “Critical Theory” & Robyn Eckersley, “The Ethics of Critical Theory”
  2. Anthony Burke, “Postmodernism” & Peter Lawler, “The Ethics of Postmodernism”
  3. Sandra Whitworth, “Feminism” & Jacqui True, “The Ethics of Feminism”

All of the above articles are in _The Oxford Handbook of International Relations_ |  Discussing and debating the three theoretical approaches in IR. |  3 |  24  
7 |  **Oct/16** **English School, Marxism, and Chinese School of IR (?)** | 
  1. Tim Dunne, “English School” & Molly Cochran, “The Ethics of English School,” in _The Oxford Handbook of International Relations_ , edited by Reus-Smit, Christian, and Duncan Snidal. Oxford University Press.
  2. Benno Teschk, “Marxism” & Nicholas Rengger, “The Ethics of Marxism,” in _The Oxford Handbook of International Relations_ , edited by Reus-Smit, Christian, and Duncan Snidal. Oxford University Press.
  3. Wang, Jiangli and Barry Buzan. 2014. “The English and Chinese Schools of International Relations: Comparisons and Lessons.” _The Chinese Journal of International Politics, 7(1): 1-46._

All of above articles are in _Sensible Politics: Visualizing International Relations_ |  Discussing and debating the three theoretical approaches in IR. |  3 |  24  
8 |  **October/23** **Midterm Exam** |  Midterm Exam |  Bad News: You shall not pass if you didn’t read the required readings. |  0 |  24  
9 |  **October/30** **Reading Week** |  Break Time after the exam |  Take a break |  0 |  0  
10 |  **November/6** **Role Theory and Foreign Policy Analysis** | 
  1. **1)** THIES, CAMERON G., AND BREUNING MARIJKE. (2012) Integrating Foreign Policy Analysis and International Relations through Role Theory. _Foreign Policy Analysis_ 8 (1, January): 1-4. 

**2)** THIES, CAMERON G.(2017) Role Theory and Foreign Policy Analysis in Latin America. _Foreign_ _Policy Analysis_ , 13(3): 662-681.
  1. HARNISCH, SEBASTIAN. (2012) Conceptualizing in the Minefield: Role Theory and Foreign Policy Learning. _Foreign Policy Analysis_ 8 (1, January): 47-69.
  2. CANTIR, CRISTIAN and JULIET KAARBO, ‘Unpacking Ego in Role Theory: Vertical and Horizontal Role Contestation and Foreign Policy,’ in Cristian Cantir and Juliet Kaarbo (ed.) Domestic Role Contestation, Foreign Policy, and International Relations (Oxford: Routledge, 2016): 1-22.

|  Role Theory in Foreign Policy Analysis has been the trend in the late 70s and 80s; yet after “disappearing” for decades, in early 2000s, a bunch of North American and European IR scholars returned to this approach and expanded its scope. This week of class focuses on introducing the basic ideas of role theory in FPA and its evolution since the 2000s. |  3 |  24  
11 |  **November/13** **Asymmetric Structure and the Small States in IR I Asymmetric Structure and the Small States in IR I** | 
  1. Long, Thomas S. 2017. “It’s Not the Size, It’s the Relationship: From ‘Small States’ to Asymmetry.” International Politics, 54 (2): 144-160.
  2. Grøn, Caroline Howard and Anders Wivel. 2011. “Maximizing Influence in the European Union after the Lisbon Treaty: from Small State Policy to Smart State Strategy.” _Journal of European Integration_ 33(5): 523-539.
  3. Bailes, Alyson J. K., Bradley A. Thayer & Baldur Thorhallsson. 2016. ‘’Alliance Theory and Alliance ‘Shelter’: the complexities of small state alliance behavior.” _Third World_ _Thematics: A TWQ Journal_ 1 (1): 9-26.

|  It is said that the IRT is designed for understanding the strong powers’ logics of behaviors. However, the real world of IR is composed mainly by smaller political entities. Scholars of IR began reflecting the unbalanced phenomena of the IR research and calling for more studies on small states’ foreign policy makings. This week’s task is to gain a little flavor of this newly emerged discipline. |  3 |  24  
12 |  **November/20** **Asymmetric Structure and the Small States in IR II** | 
  1. Womack, Brantley. 2016. _Asymmetry and International Relationships_. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Introduction.
  2. Ibid. Ch.1.
  3. Ibid. Ch.2

|  The theoretical approach of asymmetric structure provided by Womack helps further understanding the small state’s perceptions in the bilateral relationship with the great power and the psychological as well as physical discrepancy between the weak and the strong.  |  3 |  24  
13 |  **November/27** **Emotions in IR** | 
  1. Hall, Todd. 2015. _Emotional Diplomacy: Official Emotion on the International Stage_. New York: Cornell University Press. Introduction & Ch. 1.
  2. Sasley, Brent E. 2011. “Theorizing State’s Emotions,” International Studies Review 13: 452-476.
  3. Clément Maéva and Eric Sangar. 2018. _Researching Emotions in International Relations: Methodological Perspectives on the Emotional Turn_. Cham: Palgrave Macmillam. Introduction, pp. 1-30.

|  Emotions have been proved to be a crucial component in human decision making process. States did not always follow the traditional ways of action and reaction as suggested by the mainstreams IR theories. Emotions as rhetoric and behaviors are often seen in states or their policy makers’ performances when managing foreign affairs. Emotions could be trigger that shapes and shifts states’ foreign policy making direction in critical moment. This week the focal point of discussion will be the Emotional Turn in IR. |  3 |  24  
14 |  **December/4** **Non-Western IR and Its Critiques** | 
  1. Chih-yu Shih et al. 2019. _China and the International Theory: The Balance of Relationships_ (Oxon & New York: Routledge). Introduction & Ch. 1
  2. Acharya, Amitav and Barry Buzan. (2017) Why is there no Non-Western International Relations Theory? Ten Years On. _International Relations of the Asia-Pacific_ , Volume 17, Issue 3: 341-370.
  3. Aydınlı, Ersel and Gonca Biltekin. 2018. “Widening the World of IR: A Typology of Homegrown Theorizing.” _All Azimuth_ , Vol. 7, Issue 1 (January): 45-68.

|  Could IRT be developed outside of the Western World? What kind of influences/contributions could or have the non-Western experiences possibly bring/brought to the development of IRT? How do we understand the diverse aspects of Global Politics through the lens of non-Western IRT? |  3 |  24  
15 |  **December/11** **Preparation for the IRT Exam** |  Break before the Finale! |  Please make the best preparation for the final exam and get rid of this course (and the instructor) forever! |  0 |  0  
16 |  **December/18** **Final Exam** |  Final Exam |  Final Exam |  0 |  24  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_70%_
####  講述 Lecture
_15%_
####  討論 Discussion
_15%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Your performance and final grade for the course will be evaluated as follows****:** In-Class Presentation 20% Midterm Exam 30% Final Exam 40% Participation 10 % Tips for Passing the Exams |  **In-Class Presentation** | 
  1. Introducing the content of the reading briefly and concisely.
  2. Reflection of the reading/theoretical approach is required, i.e., your opinion counts and matters.
  3. I will interrupt you if you don’t finish the presentation in 15 mins, and this does impact your score.

|  Plus:
  1. You will earn more credits if you are able to do comparison with other theoretical approach or theorists’ perspectives.
  2. You can only do the presentation in 15 mins. No more.

  
---|---|---  
**Midterm Exam** | 
  1. Answering the Questions! (You got 0 credit by writing nonsense for 10 pages or more)
  2. Try to apply the materials used in class and discussion

|  Plus：
  1. Names of the theorists or titles of the articles and books ever appear in the required readings will help you gain more credits.

  
**Final Exam** | 
  1. Again, Answer the Questions!
  2. There are always questions about current affairs. Try paying more attentions to what’s going on outside of the classroom and the books.
  3. You plagiarize, you die.

|  Tips：
  1. Pretty much like the suggestions given for your midterm.
  2. This is the occasion for you to show not only how much you know about the theories, but how good you are in terms of reflecting the merits and shortcomings of them, and more importantly, how capable you are on applying theories!

  
**Participation** |  Evaluation made by the instructor and your teammates |  Try not to screw up your teammate if you got any.  
**Requirements****：**
  1. Read the required readings before attending the class.
  2. Most readings will be uploaded to the university Moodle system (or distributed to students, depending on the situation). Certain readings will have a copy reserved in the library where students can borrow and read inside the library (checking out the reserved readings is not allowed).
  3. Participation is not severely required, but if you cannot make it to the class, pls try telling the TAs or teacher in advance (or asking your classmate to do so for you) or at least contact the TAs or the teacher afterwards. 
  4. Class presentation might be conducted in a group form if there are more students registered than expected; in other words, certain assigned readings will have more than one person to do in-class presentation.
  5. Hard copies of the presentation outline for the audience are not required; PowerPoint is not required. There is no required format of presentation, and the presenting team can make the call.
  6. Both mid-term and final exams will be in the format of take-home exams; nevertheless, it is no less challenging, according to historical experience.

  
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  1. Donnelly, Jack, 2000, _Realism and International Relations_. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
  2. Burchill, S. et al.. 2005. Theories of International Relations. Hampshire: Palgrave Macmillan.
  3. Reus-Smit, Christian, and Duncan Snidal ed., 2008. _The Oxford Handbook of International Relations_(Oxford: Oxford University Press).
  4. Womack, Brantley. 2016. _Asymmetry and International Relationships_ (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press).


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Using AI as a tool for preparing the in-class presentations and exams is allowed and encouraged, but the references and the sources of information must be checked carefully.  Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/06/27 114 IRT Syllabus.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
**Office Hours: Normally, it’s every Wednesday (after 2 pm) and Thursday afternoon (after 4 pm); yet appointments must be made through email.**
**Office Location: Room 4 of the 13F at the North Wing of the General Building**
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
**Luke Browne <**lukebrowne12@gmail.com**>**
**Harry Rose <**113862015@nccu.edu.tw**/** harryrose2000@gmail.com**>**
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
