國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：比較教育：國際大型評量議題
#####  Course Name: Comparative Education: Issues from International Large-scale Assessments
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：070365001 Course No.070365001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_1.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：教育學 Course Department:Education 
  * 授課老師：陳榮政 Instructor: CHEN JUNG-CHENG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間： Session: 
##  課程簡介Course Description
Comparative education is a vast, rich, and growing field of inquiry that is concerned with the academic study of a wide range of crucial educational issues across cultures and countries. Students will learn the purposes, methodological aspects, and critical issues of comparative education. Educational phenomena and systems in the East Asian region will be introduced. To catch up emerging trends of education, international large-scale assessments (ILSAs) coordinated by International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement (IEA) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) will be examined. The core themes and implications of the selected ILSAs for education will be highlighted. Moreover, cultural influences on education will also be briefly covered. This course will sharpen students’ analytic and research skills as well as will cultivate students’ independent and comparative insights about education at an international scope. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Through participating in the course, students will be able to:  
-articulate key theories, methodologies, and prevailing literature in comparative education.  
-engage with diverse educational perspectives from various nations and cultures.  
-recognize and analyze educational issues with a broad and comprehensive perspective.  
-source and analyze relevant literature and reports from leading academic journals, researchinstitutions, and international agencies in the field.  
-present an overview of educational systems and highlight significant educational challenges inEnglish.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
- Introduction to comparative education
- Actors and purposes in comparative education
- Quantitative and qualitative approaches to comparative education
- Introduction to international large-scale assessments, 
-- the Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) 
-- the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) 
-- the International Civic and Citizenship Education Study (ICCS)
- Introduction to education and crucial issues in the East Asian region 
-- Korea 
-- Taiwan 
-- China
-- Japan 
|  Day1 |  Day2 |  Day3  
---|---|---|---  
9:30-11:00 |  Welcome & Agenda & Introduction  |  Quantitative and qualitative approaches to comparative education  |  ILSA – TIMSS   
11:15-12:30 |  Introduction to comparative education  |  Introduction to international large-scale assessments (ILSA)  |  Group oral presentation I:  Education in Taiwan  Education in Korea   
13:30-15:30 |  Comparatively speaking: history of CIES  |  ILSA – PISA  |  Group oral presentation II:  Education in China  Education in Japan   
15:45-17:00 |  Actors and purposes in comparative education  Group activities  |  ILSA – ICCS  Group activities  |  Culture and education  Closing remarks   
[本課程為國際課程採密集授課形式，故無16週課程進度安排。上課時間8/11-8/13，合併共計18小時。上課地點：韓國高麗大學。授課教師：Pay-yen Liou。學生另須修習先修課程(Pre-study)及參與AELC Forum]
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.