國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：雙語與職場應用
#####  Course Name: Bilingualism and Workplace Applications
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：070406001 Course No.070406001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_60_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文系 Course Department:English 
  * 授課老師：楊健威 Instructor: YANG CHIEN-WEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
**Course Description:**
In this EMI (English as a medium of instruction) course, we will focus on six themes: 1) networking; 2) business briefing; 3) entrepreneurship; 4) job hunting preparation; 5) business operation and trends; 6) and essential business English. All the six themes are distributed among three modules. 
In the first module, we will discuss how to socialize and network through face-to-face interaction, telephone, and email. In the second module, we concentrate on personal branding in the job market, in which we introduce essential job search documents, job interview skills, and trends in job market. You will have an opportunity to face interviewers from a wide range of fields in mock interviews. In module three, we then explore essential business briefing skills and business proposals; we also decipher the process of starting a business and common challenges faced by entrepreneurs. To apply what you will have learned, you will build a startup in the final project to pitch your business concept to potential investors.
Throughout the course, we will also discuss essential business English in a miscellaneous collection of materials, including news articles, case studies, podcasts, business reports, and book chapters. You will need to summarize, reflect on, and supplement information for a business-related topic in a mini oral presentation to enhance your understanding of business English.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
**Course Objectives:**
This course aims to prepare undergraduates for effective communication at the workplace. Juniors or seniors, regardless of their academic backgrounds, can expect to achieve the following upon completing the course:
1) acquire essential communication skills at the workplace
2) enhance business knowledge and business English
3) advocate for oneself when starting one’s career
4) apply problem-solving and hone teamwork and leadership skills in completing tasks and projects
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Course Schedule:**
***** **This version is tentative and can undergo further changes****.**
**Abbreviations used:**
PV: Preview
**Session** |  **Topic/Chapter** |  **Assignment/Project** |  **Time** **Invest-ment** Including class hours (in hours)  
---|---|---|---  
**Module 1: Networking at the Workplace**  
**1** |  a. Course Intro. b. Warmer: My Career  Interests c. Initiating a Small  Talk |  a. PV Case Study 1: effective small talks |  4  
**2** |  a. Making a cold call b. Case Discussion & Entertaining Guests c. A Simulation Practice |  a. PV Handout 2 b. Confirming the Business News Reflections (BNR) choices |  4  
**3** |  BNR 1 a. Sending and  Replying to Inquiries b. Business English:  Marketing & Branding |  a. Inquiry and Reply Draft b. Researching Job Ad.s |  5  
**Module 2: Branding Yourself**  
**4** |  BNR 2 a. Writing a Résumé/CV b. Writing a Linkedin  Profile c. Describing Traits and Skills |  a. Completing the Résumé/CV first draft |  5-6  
**5** |  a. One-on-one Résumé/CV Consultation b. Writing a Covering Letter & a Follow-up Letter |  a. Covering the Letter First Draft b. Choosing Job Interview Objectives |  5-6  
**6** |  a. Job Interview: An Intro. b. Preparing a Personal Statement (P.S.) c. Handling Behavioral Questions I: Structuring Your Responses |  a. Completing the P.S. b. Building the Interview Question Bank (IQB) |  5.5 or more  
**7** |  BNR 3 a. Handling Behavioral Questions II b. Mock Interview: Stage 1 |  a. Revising the IQB b. Preparing for Mock Interview |  6 or more  
**8** |  Mock Interview: Stage 2 (The specific date and time will be confirmed at the beginning of the semester) |  N/A |  3  
**Module 3: Business Pitch & Entrepreneurship**  
**9** |  BNR 4 a. Business Organization  b. Describing Trends and Figures  |  a. PV Case Study 2: A Successful Business Transformation  |  4-4.5  
**10** |  BNR 5 a. Business Brief Structure b. Entrepreneurship: A Case Study c. Team-building |  a. Discussion: What Is a Business Model? b. Building a Startup |  5 or more  
**11** |  BNR 6 a. The Intro. & Storytelling b. Sample Analysis |  a. Conducting Market Research |  4-5  
**12** |  a. Market Research Report b. Constructing the Body of the Brief c. Slide Design  d. Using Visualizations |  a. Business Development |  5 or more  
**13** |  BNR 7 a. Financing a Business b. Business Innovation |  a. Case Study 3: The Future of EVs |  5 or more  
**14** |  BNR 8 a. Describing Products/Services b. Using Rhetoric and Allusion |  a. Starting the e-brochure  |  5 or more  
**15** |  BNR 9 a. Concluding a Presentation b. Responding to Investors |  a. Completing the Pitch Slide b. Completing the E-brochure First Draft |  5 or more  
**16** |  Business Pitch & E-brochure Showcase |  N/A |  3  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_35%_
####  講述 Lecture
_15%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_20%_
####  其他： Others: Simulation Practice 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Requirements:**
  1. This is an **EMI** course, so all the instruction and communication in and outside the class will be conducted in **English only**. You are expected to use English only when having a discussion, participating in activities, and completing assignments.
  2. All the classes are closely interwoven, so you are expected to attend **every** class. Absence from **3** weekly sessions will result in failure to pass. *If you are leaving Taiwan before week 16 due to exchange schedule, please do inform the instructor **at the beginning** of the semester and discuss possible makeup plans.
  3. The first class meeting is important. Those who fail to attend the first class meeting for no significant reasons will be considered willing to withdraw.
  4. Those who need to ask for leaves for important reasons should notify the instructor in advance through **e-mail only**. **DO NOT** ask your peers to pass on the request for you or just use the messenger to notify the instructor.
  5. **Punctuality** : You are expected to arrive in and leave class on time.
  6. **Dress code** : you are expected to wear a **full business suit** when attending the mock interview and present the business pitch. More details will be announced in class.
  7. We will use Moodle and Google Document throughout the semester, so please get familiar with these two tools. We will post announcements, provide class materials, and collect assignments on Moodle. Please visit it on a weekly basis.
  8. You are expected to turn in assignments punctually. Delayed or missed assignments are **NOT** accepted. Make-up assignments are downgraded by **30 percent**. If you need an extension, inform the instructor by mail in advance.
  9. Writing assignments may have to be revised and resubmitted as required by the


instructor. The original copy **MUST** be attached to the revised version, so always keep the original copy of the writing assignment.
  1. You are expected to preview the assigned chapters or relevant materials.
  2. Unless required by the instructor, use of cell phone, laptop, or other electronic devices is not allowed in class.
  3. You are expected to make a **mini** -**presentations (BNR)** on 


the assigned/self-chosen business-related topics. You will find 2 or more news articles or videos from **reliable news media** to present an overview of the topic and give reflection on it in English. Each BNR will last 5 to 7 minutes and will take place in specific weeks (See the schedule). Registrations are open in the 3rd week. Outstanding presenters can expect extra grade points ranging from **2** to **4**.
  1. Voluntary **class leaders**(C. L.) will be recruited during the first two weeks. Voluntary C.L.s will be rewarded extra points of **two** added to the final grade points.
  2. **Writing tools:** During modules 2 and 3 and the weeks specified by the instructor, each student should bring a portable device supporting writing and sharing writing online, such as a laptop, a pad, or a tablet.


15. *A**cademic honesty:** Each of homework assignments should be the result of individual and original effort, and use of any sources should be clearly acknowledged. Copying texts or ideas without acknowledging the sources is considered **plagiarism** and may result in failure to pass.
16. One of the most effective ways to improve writing is for you to actually organize your thought, conduct research, reflect on others’ opinion, and develop your draft **ON YOUR OWN**. So, your work is expected to be the result of your own effort. Using **Chat-GPT or any other AI-assisted software** to complete your work is **DISCOURAGED**. We will discuss how to use AI-assisted tools to improve your writing in class.
**Evaluation:**
**Section & Grade** **Percentage** |  **Content** |  **Sub-section**  
---|---|---  
**Class Participation:** **35%** |  Course material preview and discussion; participation in in-class activities and tasks |  1. attendance : 10%  
2. In-class participation: 25%  
**Task Performance: 45%** |  Individual and Group Assignments |  1. BNR: 10%  
2. Assignments: 25%  
3. Mock Interview: 10%  
**Final Project:** **20%** |  Contribution to team-based projects |  1. Business Pitch: 10%  
2. E-brochure: 5%  
3: Revising and Proofreading: 5%  
**Bonus points** : 5-10% maximum
*Extra grade points will be awarded to those who volunteer to make oral
presentations or are willing to take on more responsibilities. The opportunities of winning extra points will be announced in class in advance.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Textbook:**
All the course materials will be prepared by the instructor, so please prepare a folder to store the course materials. Suggested course materials will be announced in the first class meeting.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:We will discuss how to use AI-assisted tools to improve your writing style in class. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
**Office Hours:**
10-12 pm, Tuesday or specially arranged upon request 
Office: Room 507, General Center for Research
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
**TBA**
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
