國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：雙語溝通能力
#####  Course Name: Bilingual Communication Skills
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：070403001 Course No.070403001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_60_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文系 Course Department:English 
  * 授課老師：吳承翰 Instructor: WU CHENG-HAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
Effective communication requires practice, awareness of social events, and strong willingness to stay informed about everyday life. Building on the communication skills and current topics, this course invites students to critically engage with daily life, literary works, and popular social topics in both English and Chinese. Each week devotes to a specific theme from diverse subjects, such as well-being, parent-child relationship, folk culture, and modern literature. By examining texts from both Western and Eastern writers, students are encouraged to identify shared ideas and explore how these perspectives differ. Be they verbal, written, or audiovisual, these works will not only enhance our ability to communicate effectively in a bilingual scenario, but also spark meaningful reflection on social issues in Taiwan and beyond. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of this course, students will be able to 
  1. Apply advanced bilingual communication skills in both written and spoken forms. 
  2. Compare viewpoints from various resources in bilingual texts. 
  3. Critically analyze social events.
  4. Cultivate a sense of appreciation for humanities.
  5. Refine arguments by using effective rhetorical devices.
  6. Stay well-informed about current topics.
  7. Synthesize diverse perspectives through critical thinking.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Course Schedule**
**Week** |  **Date** |  **Topic** |  **Assigned Texts**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Sept 5 |  Introduction  
2 |  12 |  Language and Identity  | 
  * Richard Rodriguez, _Hunger of Memory_
  * Amy Tan, “Mother Tongue”

  
3 |  19 |  Loss, Memory, and Remembrance | 
  * 琦君〈髻〉
  * Joan Didion, “Goodbye to All That”

  
4 |  26 |  Personal Decision vs.  Social Climate  | 
  * 林文月〈讀中文系的人〉
  * Adam Alter, _Irresistible_

  
5 |  Oct 3 |  Individual Supervision  
**6** |  **10** |  **National Holiday** |  **No class**  
7 |  17 |  **_Midterm Presentation_**  
**8** |  **24** |  **National Holiday** |  **No class**  
9 |  31 |  Screening: _Hindi Medium_  
10 |  Nov 7 |  Parent-Child Relationship, Parenting Style, and Family Value | 
  * 龍應台〈目送〉
  * Michelle Zauner, _Crying in H Mart_

  
11 |  14 |  Individual Value vs. Collective Value | 
  * 廖玉蕙〈繁華散盡〉
  * Jean Kilbourne, _Can’t Buy My Love_

  
12 |  21 |  (Over)Tourism, Travel, and Hospitality  | 
  * De Botton, _The Art of Travel_
  * Leah Pattem, “Anti-Tourism”

  
13 |  28 |  Celebrity Culture, Mental Health, and the Media’s Role |  Jennette McCurdy, _I’m Glad My Mom Died_  
14 |  Dec 5 |  Self-Help, Well-Being, and Personal Growth |  Michelle Obama, _The Light We Carry_  
15 |  12 |  **_Final in-class Writing_**  
16 |  19 |  Optional Online Meeting |  Webex link will be provided if online meeting is required  
  *     * Please note that the above contents may be adjusted based on students’ learning and the instructor’s needs. Major changes will be announced in class. 
    * Webex online meeting will be arranged in week 16 if the instructor needs to speak with you. 


##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_25%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Course Requirements**
  1. **Punctuality.** The roll call will start at 9:10 sharp, so please come to class on time. Each tardiness will deduct 5 points from your final grade. Being late twice equals one absence. Each unjustifiable absence will reduce 10 points from your final grade. After three absences in total, you will fail the course.
  2. **Weekly Reading Assignments.** Weekly reading assignments are mandatory. Please finish reading the assigned articles before coming to the class. The instructor will ask the class questions based on the articles that you have read. 
  3. **Group Presentation.** A leading team of three or four members should choose a topic from the syllabus to create a 25-minute PowerPoint presentation and provide the audience with food for thought. In your PowerPoint presentation, please summarize the assigned article, read us a couple of thought-provoking sentences, discuss the article’s socio-historical background, introduce the author, and share your thoughts with the class.
  4. **Midterm Presentation.** A group of three or four members should choose a current social topic and deliver a 25-minute PowerPoint presentation. Your presentation should include an introduction to the author, one or two quotes from the article, reasons of your chosen quote(s), an analysis of the article, and any additional insights or fun facts. The goal is to encourage students to become more informed, empathetic individuals who can navigate the complexities of today’s society. 
  5. **Final in-class Writing.** The instructor will choose a topic and email the final in-class writing questions to the class in Week 14. Please read the assigned materials carefully and elaborate your own thoughts in an organized manner. You are encouraged to prepare your answers in advance. However, the use of any electronic devices is strictly prohibited during the final exam.
  6. **Course Packet.** There will be a course packet covering all the reading materials for this course. Please get it from the NCCU photocopying center in the basement of the Student Club Center (樂活館).**N.B.** To facilitate your learning and allow me to observe your reading progress, it is essential that you secure a copy of the course packet.
  7. **Use of AI.** You may use AI tools (such as Google Gemini, ChatGPT, etc.) for research and information gathering. However, relying on it to generate your entire presentation and reading it verbatim from an electronic device will not be tolerated.


**Grading Policy**
  1. Attendance 10%
  2. Group Presentation 20% 
  3. Midterm Presentation 30%
  4. Final Exam: In-class Writing 40%


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**References**
  1.     1.       1. Alter, Adam. _Irresistible: The Rise of Addictive Technology and the Business of Keeping Us Hooked_. Penguin Press, 2017. 
      2. De Botton, Alain. _The Art of Travel_. Vintage Books, 2004.
      3. Didion, Joan. “Goodbye to All That” _Slouching Towards Bethlehem_. Farrar, Straus, Giroux, 1968, pp. 225–238.
      4. _Hindi Medium_. Directed by Saket Chaudhary, Maddock Films / Zee Studios International, 2017. 
      5. Kilbourne, Jean. _Can’t Buy My Love: How Advertising Changes the Way We Think and Feel_. Simon & Schuster, 1999.
      6. McCurdy, Jennette. _I’m Glad My Mom Died_. Simon & Schuster, 2022. 
      7. Obama, Michelle. _The Light We Carry: Overcoming in Uncertain Times_. Crown, 2022. 
      8. Pattem, Leah. “As anti-tourism protests grow in Europe, we need to rethink – but that’s no reason to stop travelling” _The Guardian_ , 18 Jun 2025, https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2025/jun/18/europe-tourism-protests-travel-visitors.
      9. Rodriguez, Richard. _Hunger of Memories: The Education of Richard Rodriguez_. Bantam, 1983. 
      10. Tan, Amy. “Mother Tongue.”  _The Threepenny Review_ , no. 43, 1990, pp. 7–8.  _JSTOR_ , http://www.jstor.org/stable/4383908.
      11. Zauner, Michelle. _Crying in H Mart: A Memoir_. Alfred K. Knopf, 2021. 
      12. 林文月。 _讀中文系的人_ 。台北市：洪範，民96年。
      13. 琦君。 _琦君散文選中英對照_ 。台北市：九歌，民96年。
      14. 廖玉蕙。 _繁華散盡：廖玉蕙散文中英對照_ 。台北：九歌，民100年。
      15. 龍應台。 _目送_ 。台北市：時報，民111年。


**Useful websites**
  1. BBC News https://www.bbc.com/
  2. The Guardian https://www.theguardian.com/international
  3. Taiwan Panorama https://www.taiwan-panorama.com/en
  4. Taiwan News https://www.taiwannews.com.tw/
  5. 天下雜誌 https://www.cw.com.tw/
  6. 遠見雜誌 https://www.gvm.com.tw/


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:You may use AI tools for research and information gathering. However, relying on it to generate your entire presentation and reading it verbatim from an electronic device will not be tolerated. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
**Instructor** : Cheng-han Wu
**Class Time** :Fridays 9:10 a.m. ~ 12:00 p.m.
**Classroom** :Syue Sih Building 040101
**Office** : The EMI Resource Center (Administration Building, 8th Fl.)
**Office Hours** : Wednesdays 9:00 a.m. ~ 12:00 p.m. (preferably by appointment) 
**E-mail** : chw5940@nccu.edu.tw
**Tel** : (02)29393091 ext. 67072
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
N/A 
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
