國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：雙語影音媒體溝通
#####  Course Name: Bilingual Media Communication
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：070404001 Course No.070404001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_60_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文系 Course Department:English 
  * 授課老師：吳承翰 Instructor: WU CHENG-HAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
In an era bombarded with notifications and overwhelmed by information, the media not only fragments our focus but fundamentally reshapes the way we access knowledge today. Building on the media literacy foundation, this course looks into the mechanism of media outlets, asking these key essential questions: _What is the media?_ _In what way does the media transform our daily interactions, and what do we sacrifice for its convenience and allure?_ From printed words to digital platforms, the dissemination of information has undergone a sea change. Televisions, smartphones, and live-streaming services offer lavish entertainment and immediate connection but often at the expense of enduring attention. This course invites students to critically analyze media contents and engage thought-provoking articles, initiating a meaningful dialogue with authors and peers. Through discussions, students will not only refine their analytical skills but also rethink the role of the media in today’s society.
**N.B.** Please note that while the course primarily centers around British and American media culture, students are encouraged to include local examples and incorporate interdisciplinary perspectives into the in-class conversation. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of this course, students will be able to 
  1. Acquire media literacy skills to spot bias, misinformation, and propaganda in different media outlets.
  2. Analyze media contents and identify techniques of media manipulation.
  3. Contribute to ethical and responsible media practices.
  4. Enhance language proficiency (both English and Chinese) through activities and discussions.
  5. Realize the influence of the media in today’s society.
  6. Reflect on our own roles as active participants of the media.
  7. Understand the socio-cultural, political, and economic factors that shape media production and consumption. 


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Course Schedule**
**Week** |  **Date** |  **Topic** |  **Required Reading**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Sept 3 |  Introduction  
2 |  10 |  Gender and Media (I) —Advertisement Industry |  Kilbourne, _Deadly Persuasion_  
3 |  17 |  Gender and Media (II)—Visual Arts |  Berger, _Ways of Seeing_  
4 |  24 |  Media, Exploitation, and Adult Industry |  Dines, _Pornland_  
5 |  Oct 1 |  Media, Stardom, and the Faustian Pact |  Spears, _The Woman in Me_  
6 |  8 |  Media, Entertainment, and the Show Business |  Postman,_Amusing Ourselves to Death_  
7 |  15 |  Screening: _Raise the Red Lantern_  
8 |  22 |  **_Midterm Exam_**  
9 |  29 |  Media, the Internet, and the Paradox of Knowledge |  Carr, _The Shallows_  
10 |  Nov 5 |  Sensationalism, Celebrity Culture, and the Media’s Role  |  De Botton, _The News_  
11 |  12 |  Media Narratives, Higher Education, and the (Mis)conception of the Humanities  |  Deresiewicz, _Excellent Sheep_  
12 |  19 |  Media, Politics, and the American Dream  |  Obama, _Becoming_  
13 |  26 |  Media, Mental Health, and Well-being  |  Haidt, _The Anxious Generation_  
14 |  Dec 3 |  Group Supervision with the Instructor  
15 |  10 |  **_Final Presentation_**  
16 |  17 |  Optional Online Meeting |  A link will be provided if online meeting is required  
  *     * Please note that the above contents may be adjusted based on students’ learning and the instructor’s needs. Major changes will be announced in class. 
    * A Webex online meeting will be arranged in week 16 should the instructor need to speak with you. 


##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_25%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Course Requirements**
  1. **Punctuality**. The roll call will start at 13:10 sharp, so please come to class on time. Each tardiness will deduct 5 points from your final grade. Being late twice equals one absence. Each unjustified absence will reduce 10 points from your final grade. After three absences in total, you will fail the course. 
  2. **Participation and Assignments**. Weekly short reading assignment is mandatory. Please finish reading the assigned article before coming to the class. Read the assigned materials carefully and join the class activities vigorously.
  3. **Group Presentation**. A leading team of three or four members should choose a topic from the syllabus to create a 25-minute PowerPoint presentation and provide the audience with food for thought. 
  4. **Midterm in-class Writing**. The instructor will email the midterm in-class writing questions to the class in Week 7, a week before the midterm exam. You are encouraged to prepare your answers in advance. However, the use of any electronic devices during the exam is strictly prohibited. 
  5. **Final Presentation.** A group of three or four members should choose any social events related to the media and make a 25-minute presentation. In your final presentation, please include an introduction, reasons why you choose this topic, interesting passages/quotes, real-life examples, personal thoughts, and finally, a conclusion. **N.B.** To assist you with a well-organized final presentation, a group supervision will be arranged in Week 14. The instructor will email you a link for the online meeting. Please join the meeting as a group at the scheduled time.
  6. **Course Packet.** There will be a course packet covering all the reading materials for this course. Please get it from the NCCU photocopying center in the basement of the Student Club Center (樂活館).**N.B.** To facilitate your learning and allow me to observe your reading progress, it is essential that you secure a copy of the course packet.
  7. **Use of AI**. You may use AI tools (such as Google Gemini, ChatGPT, Grok, etc.) for advice and information gathering. However, relying on it to generate your entire presentation and reading it verbatim from an electronic device will not be tolerated.


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**References**
  1.     1.       1. Berger, John. _Ways of Seeing_. BBC and Penguin Books, 1972.
      2. Carr, Nicholas. _The Shallows: What the Internet Is Doing to Our Brains_. W. W. Norton & Company, 2011. 
      3. De Botton, Alain. _The News: A User’s Manual_. Pantheon Books, 2014. 
      4. Deresiewicz, William. _Excellent Sheep: The Miseducation of the American Elite and the Way to a Meaningful Life_. Free Press, 2015. 
      5. Dines, Gail. _Porland: How Porn Has Hijacked Our Sexuality_. Beacon Press, 2009.
      6. Haidt, Jonathan. _The Anxious Generation: How the Great Rewiring of Childhood Is Causing an Epidemic of Mental Illness_. Penguin Press, 2024.
      7. Kilbourne, Jean. _Deadly Persuasion: Why Women and Girls Must Fight the Addictive Power of Advertising_. Free Press, 1999.
      8. Obama, Michelle. _Becoming_. Crown, 2018.
      9. Postman, Neil. _Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business_. Penguin Books, 1985.
      10. _Raised the Red Lantern_. Directed by Zhang Yimou, Era International / China Film Group Corporation, 1991. 
      11. Spears, Britney. _The Woman in Me_. Gallery Books, 2023. 


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:You may use AI tools for advice and information gathering. However, relying on it to generate your entire presentation and reading it verbatim from an electronic device will not be tolerated. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
**Instructor** : Cheng-han Wu
**Class Time:** Wednesdays 13:10 ~ 16:00 
**Classroom:** Syue Sih Building 040101
**Office** : The EMI Resource Center (Administration Building, 8th Fl.)
**Office Hours** : Wednesdays 9:00 a.m. ~ 12:00 p.m. (preferably by appointment) 
**E-mail** : chw5940@nccu.edu.tw
**Tel** : (02) 29393091 ext. 67072
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
N/A
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
