國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：華語特別班基礎華語
#####  Course Name: Mandarin Course-Part-time Basic Mandarin
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：088500011 Course No.088500011


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：華語文中心 Course Department:Chinese Language Center 
  * 授課老師：許宇萱 Instructor: Hsu YuHsuan 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二78E Session: tue16-19


##  課程簡介Course Description
**Learning Objectives:**
This course focuses on increasing students’ cultural awareness and four language skills (listening, speaking, reading, and writing). 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
**Lessons** |  **Topic** |  **Learning Objectives** |  **Grammar**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Hello |  Students will be able to use basic Chinese vocabulary and grammar to exchange greetings. |  1-1 -Sentences with Verb是 -Negative Sentences with不 -Simple Questions with Particle嗎 -Comprehensive Exercise for是,不and 嗎  
1-2 -S＋去＋Place -Abbreviated Questions with Particle呢  
2 |  My Family |  Students will be able to introduce their family members in simple Chinese. |  2-1 -Possessive Particle的 -Questions with誰 -Sentences with叫  
2-2 -Intransitive State Verbs (Vs) -Subject-Verb-Object -Placement of Time Words  
3 |  I’d Like to Buy Some Bread |  Students will be able to use numbers and common measure words to engage in basic shopping conversations. |  3-1 -Numbers from 1-99 -Measure Words -Questions with Positive-negative form  
3-2 -Numbers from 100-9999 -Expressing “too”. “also” with 也 -Expressing Possession with有/沒有 -The usage of這and那  
4 |  Inviting Friends to Our House |  Students will be able to describe their planned leisure activities using appropriate expressions. |  4-1 -Indicating Time -S＋在＋V -Expressing Suggestion with吧  
4-2 -S＋來/去＋Place＋V(O) -Questions with還是 -Expressing “both”, “all” with都 -這/那-Nu-M-N  
5-2 -Chinese Address Format -Verb-Objects Serving as Topics -有一點/有點/有點兒 -Location of an Action  
5 |  Going to the Movies by Bus |  Students will be able to identify common modes of transportation and give directions from one location to another. |  5-1 -在as a Verb with a Place Word -Existential Sentences with有/沒有 -How to Get Around with Transportation  
5-2 -Chinese Address Format -Verb-Objects Serving as Topics -有一點/有點/有點兒 -Location of an Action  
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week 1** |  Sep 02 |  Introduce yourself in Mandarin + Pronunciation + Pinyin  
---|---|---  
**Week 2** |  Sep 09 |  Lesson 1  
**Week 3** |  Sep 16 |  Lesson 1  
**Week 4** |  Sep 23 |  Lesson 2  
**Week 5** |  Sep 30 |  Lesson 2  
**Week 6** |  Oct 07 |  Lesson 2  
**Week7** |  Oct 14 |  Lesson 3  
**Week 8** |  Oct 21 |  Lesson 3  
**Week 9** |  Oct 28 |  Lesson 3  
**Week 10** |  Nov 04 |  Lesson 4  
**Week 11** |  Nov 11 |  Lesson 4  
**Week 12** |  Nov 18 |  Lesson 4  
**Week 13** |  Nov 25 |  Lesson 5  
**Week 14** |  Dec 02 |  Lesson 5  
**Week 15** |  Dec 09 |  Lesson 5  
**Week 16** |  Dec 16 |  **Final Exam**  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Grading and Requirements:**
  * **Homework and Assignments (****25****%)**  
  
Homework will be assigned throughout the semester and will be based on the materials covered in class. All homework should be handed in **on time at the beginning of class**. Each assignment will be graded on a 100-point basis. **No late homework will be accepted! Any incomplete assignment will be checked but will receive no credits.**


  * **Quizzes (****25****%)**  
  
There will be **in-class quizzes** , mainly based on new vocabulary(dictation) and grammatical points. It is students’ responsibility to keep track of the quizzes as listed in the course schedule. No make-up quizzes will be given unless students have a **documented** **excuse** (e.g., a medical excuse) **and** follow the policy for make-up quizzes and tests.  



  * **Final Exam (****30****%)**  
  
There will be **one****major exam**. It’s a comprehensive test that will cover all the materials learned up to that point. **Absolutely no make-up tests will be given unless students have a documented excuse** (e.g., a medical excuse) **and** follow the policy for make-up quizzes and tests.


  * **Class Participation (****10****%)**  
  
The instructor expects **active participation** from students in class and encourages them to ask questions and share outside knowledge at all times during class. 


  * **Attendance (****10****%)**  
  
For each 1-hour unexcused absence, **1 point** will be deducted from this portion of the grade. Any official documentation for absences needs to be submitted to the instructor within **3 days** after the student returns to class or else the student’s absence will be counted as an**unexcused absence** and the student may incur the **1****-****point penalty**. 
  * **If a student misses 9 hours without any excuse, the student’s final grade will automatically be an F.**


The class sign-in sheet is only available for the **first 10 minutes** of class, so if students do not arrive by then, it will be counted as absent. **Leaving class early is not allowed** unless there is an emergency. In **rare** situations when students have to leave the class early, they need to obtain the instructor’s permission **before** class begins. Otherwise, leaving early will count as an unexcused absence.  

**This syllabus is provisional; the final version will be confirmed after assessing students’ levels.**
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Required course materials:** 《時代先修華語》課本及作業本
Modern Chinese Starter Textbook and Workbook
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
International Building Chinese Language Center
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
