國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：南亞史
#####  Course Name: South Asian History
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：103232001 Course No.103232001


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_50_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：歷史二 Course Department:History/B/2 
  * 授課老師：雷恩‧侯洛伊德 Instructor: Ryan Holroyd Edgecombe 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二78E Session: tue16-19


##  課程簡介Course Description
Welcome to South Asian History! This course will introduce you to the history of South Asia from the emergence of the Indus Valley Civilisation (3300 BC to 1300 BC) until the twentieth century. The geographic focus of the course will be on the region that is now occupied by the nation states of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, and Sri Lanka. The main themes of the course will be the politics, economics, and religions of South Asia.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 基本歷史知識與理論Basic historical knowledge and theories
  * B. 文獻解讀與資料分析Interpretation of text and analysis of materials
  * C. 溝通、批判與討論能力Capacity of communication, critique and discussion 
  * D. 口述採訪與田野工作Oral history and fieldworks
  * E. 歷史寫作Historical writing
  * F. 多元學科資源運用Application for multidisciplinary research sources


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
You will acquire a familiarity with the general course of South Asian history, including the most powerful political dynasties, the evolution of important technologies, the development of major religions, and South Asia's relationships with other parts of the world. You will also be introduced to some of the major debates within South Asian history, and will gain practice analyzing and evaluating different types of evidence, and formulating your own arguments in discussion and in writing.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
During the semester you will write two examinations, a midterm and a final (each worth 25%). You will also write a research paper of ten to fifteen pages in English or Chinese on a topic of your choice related to South Asia (worth 30%). 
Aside from the examination and presentation days, each meeting will consist of a lecture and then a discussion section. For each discussion section you will need to read a short selection of primary or secondary sources (which I will make available on Moodle every week) and then answer two or three questions with about one to three sentences in English or Chinese (attendance, participation, and the weekly discussion question answers will be worth 20% together).
Tentative Course Schedule:
9/2: Introduction and the Indus River Valley 
9/9: The Vedic age (1500 BC – 500 BC)
9/16: The Mauryan Empire (300 BC – AD 300)
9/23: The Gupta Empire (AD 300 – AD 700)
9/30: The Chola Empire (AD 500 – AD 700)
10/7: The Entry of Islam (700 – 1200)
10/14: No Class (independent reading day)
10/21: Midterm
10/28: The Delhi Sultanates (1200 – 1500)
11/4: Vijayanagara (1300 – 1600)
11/11: The Mughal Empire (1500 – 1750)
11/18: The Marathas (1700 – 1800)
11/25: The British East India Company to 1800
12/2: Company's Rule & the Raj (1800 – 1819)
12/9: Independence and the 20th Century
12/16: Final Exam
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_50%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Participation, attendance, and discussion question answers: 20%
Midterm exam: 20%
Final exam: 20%
Final paper: 30%
Research Project Plan: 10%
Examination Make-up Policy:
If you need to miss an exam because of a planned activity, you must let the instructor know in advance so an alternative time can be arranged for a make-up exam. Similarly, if you miss an exam because of an emergency, you should contact the instructor as soon as possible to discuss arranging a time for a make-up exam.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
The recommended (but not required) textbook for this course is Marc Jason Gilbert's _South Asia in World History_ (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2017). The course’s weekly reading will be available on Moodle.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:AI tools may be used for editing and to assist with translations of direct quotes from sources cited in assignments. They may not be used for the composition of any text submitted as an assignment. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
My office hours will be 1 PM to 3 PM on Tuesdays, or by appointment (just send me an e-mail and we can set up a time). My office in Room 340529 in the Jitao Building.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
