國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：歷史之終結概念專題
#####  Course Name: Special Topics on the End of History
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：103274001 Course No.103274001


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：歷史三 Course Department:History/B/3 
  * 授課老師：雷恩‧侯洛伊德 Instructor: Ryan Holroyd Edgecombe 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四78E Session: thu16-19


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is about the idea of History, but it will not primarily focus on events that happened in the past. Instead, visions of the present and the future are going to be even more important for us. The main questions we will ask will be about where we, as a society, a culture, or a species, are going in time. Does History have a goal? Is it moving in a particular direction? And does it have a destination? Is there ever going to be an ‘end of History’? We will read works by thinkers from the eighteenth to twenty-first centuries who have attempted to answer these questions. And we will try to understand why so much blood, sweat, and ink have been spilt for the sake of different visions of History, why people have been willing to kill and die for the ways they have believed the future needs to be, and whether or not any of these visions matter for our world and our futures today.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 基本歷史知識與理論Basic historical knowledge and theories
  * B. 文獻解讀與資料分析Interpretation of text and analysis of materials
  * C. 溝通、批判與討論能力Capacity of communication, critique and discussion 
  * D. 口述採訪與田野工作Oral history and fieldworks
  * E. 歷史寫作Historical writing
  * F. 多元學科資源運用Application for multidisciplinary research sources


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
In the course, you will begin to think about History not as a series of sterile facts about events in some neglected past, but as an animating force that shapes how we understand time and our place within it. We will read a selection of important texts about the structure of Historical time written between the French Revolution and the digital age of the present. In addition to becoming familiar with these arguments for what History actually is, we will also use the ideas to re-evaluate how we think about historical events in the past, the tumult of our present world, and what we are consciously or unconsciously anticipating our future to be.
Beyond these loftier intellectual goals, the course will also provide an opportunity for you to sharpen your academic skills as a presenter, a discussant, and a writer. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** |  **課程主題** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** |  **教學活動與作業**  
---|---|---|---  
9/4 |  Course Introduction |  |  Discussion Questions  
9/11 |  The End of the Enlightenment |  Condorcet-Malthus |  Discussion Questions & Presentations  
9/18 |  Ideology & Materialism |  Hegel-Marx |  Discussion Questions & Presentations  
9/25 |  Morality |  Nietzsche-Spencer |  Discussion Questions & Presentations  
10/2 |  Capitalism & Culture |  Weber-Spengler |  Discussion Questions & Presentations  
10/9 |  The Crisis of Marxism |  Luxemborg-Benjamin |  Discussion Questions & Presentations  
10/16 |  |  _No class_ |  Independent reading  
10/23 |  |  _No class_ |  Independent reading  
10/30 |  Evolution |  Huxley-Eiseley |  Discussion Questions & Presentations  
11/6 |  Fascism & Totalitarianism |  Evola-Arendt |  Discussion Questions & Presentations  
11/13 |  Magic & Mind |  Eliade-Freud |  Discussion Questions & Presentations  
11/20 |  Late Marxism |  Marcuse-Wallerstein |  Discussion Questions & Presentations  
11/27 |  Modernity & Postmodernity |  Foucault-Habermas |  Discussion Questions & Presentations  
12/4 |  Liberal Democracy |  Fukuyama-Fisher |  Discussion Questions & Presentations  
12/11 |  Posthumanism |  Bostrom-Hayles |  Presentations  
12/18 |  |  Final Presentations |  Final Research Presentations & Discussion  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_40%_
####  討論 Discussion
_40%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Attendance, Participation, & Weekly Response Questions: 20%
Presentations: 40%
Final Essay: 40%
*Please note that all written assignments can be submitted in either English or Chinese. All presentations must be in English.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
All texts will be available on Moodle.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:AI tools can be used to edit written work and can be used to translate quotations. AI tools may not be used to compose text in any assignment submitted in the course. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
My office hours will be on Tuesdays from 1 PM to 3 PM. My office is Room 340509 of the Jitao Building.
If you cannot make my office hours, we can make appointment to meet at another time in the week. Just send me an e-mail.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
