國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：教育心理學研究
#####  Course Name: Study on Educational Psychology
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：152588001 Course No.152588001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：教育碩一、教育碩二 Course Department:Education/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：邱美秀 Instructor: CHIU MEI-SHIU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一D56 Session: mon13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
Course title: Seminar on Educational Psychology (for master and year-4 students; 13:10-16:00;Mondays elective course; 3 credit hours)  
---  
Instructor: |  |  |  |  |  |   
Mei-Shiu Chiu, Professor, NCCU (office hours: 12-13pm Monday; office: Research Building 407; email: chium@g.nccu.edu.tw. Please email me to make an appointment. Thank you!) |  |  |  |  |  |   
Emmanuel Manalo, Professor, Kyoto University |  |  |  |  |  |   
Yuri Uesaka, Associate Professor, University of Tokyo |  |  |  |  |  |   
Course introduction and learner characteristics: |  |  |  |  |  |   
1. The course aims to cultivate students ability to advance the knowledge of educational psychology. |  |  |  |  |  |   
2. This course is for students interested in the contents, searching for excellence, and accepting the teaching methods. |  |  |  |  |  |   
3. The course is suitable for master students with the ability to read English papers. |  |  |  |  |  |   
4. Students are encouraged to present research papers (including systematic review or meta-analysis ones) in conferences or jornals. |  |  |  |  |  |   
5. Major learning management systems are Moodle and Google Drive. (Facebook or Line groups may be used if needed, due to international participation.) |  |  |  |  |  |   
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備教育心理與輔導諮商的專業知識 Specialized knowledge of educational psychology and consultation with counselors
  * B. 具備教育基礎理論與研究方法的內涵 Equipped with fundamental educational theories and research methods
  * C. 具備國際觀與學術競爭力 Global perspective and academic competitiveness
  * D. 具備創意與獨立思考的能力 Ability to think independently and creatively
  * E. 具備執行研究與解決問題的能力 Ability to conduct research and solve problems
  * F. 具備多元教育觀與教育理念 Possessing a diversity of educational values and philosophies


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Course objectives and learning outcomes  
---  
1. Understand theories and studies on educational psychology. |  |   
2. Understand research methodologies and trends in educational psychology. |  |   
3. Evaluate or conduct studies on educational psychology. |  |   
4. Analyze and review papers in relation to educational psychology. |  |   
5. Write and present papers in relation to educational psychology. |  |   
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Tentative course calendar/schedule: |  |  |  | Instructor |  |  |  | assessment |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Week | Date | Contents | Mei | Emmanuel | Yuri | in class | essay writing | oral presentation | class Q&A; share  
1 | 901 | Course Introduction & Overview | 3 |  |  |  lecture;discussion;activity/project;reflection (fi any) |  |  | 3  
2 | 908 | Affective Domain in Learning | 3 |  |  | same as above |  |  | 3  
3 | 915 | Cognitive and Metacognitive Strategy Interventions | 3 | ok | 3hr online | same as above |  |  | 3  
4 | 922 | Cognitive Domain – Learning Theories | 3 | 3hr online |  | same as above |  |  | 3  
5 | 929 | Scaffolding and Instructional Design | 3 | ok | 3hr online | same as above |  |  | 3  
6 | 106(holiday) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |   
7 | 1013 | Social Domain – Learning in Context | 3 |  |  | same as above |  |  | 3  
8 | 1020 | Motivation in Practice | 3 |  |  | same as above |  |  | 3  
9 | 1027 | Research Design and Measurement in Educational Psychology | 3 |  |  | same as above |  |  | 3  
10 | 1103 | School visit (am; 3hr); Data Collection and Data Analysis in Educational Psychology (pm; 3hr; Toshi oral defense) | 6 | in person | in person | school visit; lecture; discussion |  |  | 6  
11 | 1110 | (no class, due to the 6hr teaching on 1103) |  |  | ok (14:30-16:00) |  |  |  |   
12 | 1117 | Project 1: Proposals (or with Initial Results) | 3 |  |  | (group/individual) proposal oral presentation;reflection (fi any) | 15 | 5 | 3  
13 | 1124 | project 2: Writing and Presentation in Educational Psychology | 3 | 3hr online | ok |  conduct research; write research essay; discussion;reflection (fi any) |  |  | 3  
14 | 1201 | project 3: Completing writing and presenation; Conference preparation | 3 |  | ok (14:30-16:00) | same as above |  |  | 3  
15 | 1208 (change to 1213 | mini-conference 1 | 3 | in person | in person | present studies |  |  | 3  
16 | 1215(change to 1213 | mini-conference 2 | 3 | in person | in person | same as above | 30 | 5 | 3  
|  |  |  |  | Total score | 100 | 45 | 10 | 45  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_25%_
####  講述 Lecture
_25%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_20%_
####  其他： Others: visit and project 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Please see the "Tentative course calendar/schedule."
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
References: Some example references below.  
---  
Chiu, M.-S., & Seah, W. T. (2024). Values and valuing pedagogies in affect-focused mathematics teaching. Social Sciences and Humanities Open, 10, 101050. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ssaho.2024.101050 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Creswell, J. W. (2014). Research design: Qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods approaches (4th ed.). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. |  |  |  |  |  |   
Mayer, R. E. (2018). Educational psychology’s past and future contributions to the science of learning, science of instruction, and science of assessment. Journal of Educational Psychology, 110(2), 174-179. https://doi.org/10.1037/edu0000195 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Pekrun, R. (2024). Control-value theory: From achievement emotion to a general theory of human emotions. Educational Psychology Review, 36(3), 83. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10648-024-09909-7 |  |  |  |  |  |   
Plucker, J. A., & Makel, M. C. (2021). Replication is important for educational psychology: Recent developments and key issues. Educational Psychologist, 56(2), 90-100. |  |  |  |  |  |   
Yeager, D. S., & Dweck, C. S. (2020). What can be learned from growth mindset controversies?. American Psychologist, 75(9), 1269–1284. https://doi.org/10.1037/amp0000794 |  |  |  |  |  |   
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Course moodle platform, when available.
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
office hours: 12-13pm Mondays; office: Research Building 407; email: chium@nccu.edu.tw; Please make an appointment in advance. Thank you!
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
NA.
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
