國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：數位賦能教育科技管理研究
#####  Course Name: Study on Digital Empowerment and Education Technology Management
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：152552001 Course No.152552001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：教育碩一、教育碩二 Course Department:Education/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：顏敏仁 Instructor: YAN MIN-REN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16 


##  課程簡介Course Description
The course focuses on digital technology enhanced education innovation and management with applications. Over the past several years, the field of Educational Technology Management has undergone a significant transformation. The advancements in digital technologies have led to new educational paradigms, and the need for efficient management and effective implementation of these technologies has never been more pressing. This course provides opportunities for students to explore these changes and share experiences and knowledge to improve educational technology management practices.
This course will help students to reflect on the role various forms of electronic and digital technology can play in the teaching/learning process and how you can engage these processes in your classroom. Students will become skilled in some of the many digital tools used in today's schools, including MIT’s System Dynamics modelling and simulation-based scenario planning. 
This course also consider how a small-scale Educational Technology research project can be conducted in an education environment. Case studies and project-based learning with Education for Sustainable Development and organizational learning will be reviewed to offer practical tools and applied research strategies to students prior to conducting their own Educational Technology research project.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備教育心理與輔導諮商的專業知識 Specialized knowledge of educational psychology and consultation with counselors
  * B. 具備教育基礎理論與研究方法的內涵 Equipped with fundamental educational theories and research methods
  * C. 具備多元教育觀與教育理念 Possessing a diversity of educational values and philosophies
  * D. 具備創意與獨立思考的能力 Ability to think independently and creatively
  * E. 具備國際觀與學術競爭力 Global perspective and academic competitiveness
  * F. 具備執行研究與解決問題的能力 Ability to conduct research and solve problems


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is designed for students to develop their understanding of educational technology and digital empowerment and to learn how to manage educational technologies for better educational practices. Therefore, the objectives of this course are for the student to: 
  1. Understand the principles of digital empowerment and trends of educational technology with education innovation issues. 
  2. Manage educational technologies for teaching and curriculum development. 
  3. Manage educational technologies for e-learning systems.
  4. Develop ideas, steps, and apply digital innovations for organizational learning. 


There are three requirements as learning outcomes for students taking this course for a grade. First, active participation in class discussion is expected. Second, each student must prepare an article review (or case review) and present the articles/case to the class. The review should be an analysis of the authors’ theory, methods, and findings. Third, a case study relevant to applications of educational technology and education for sustainable development is required. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
|  **週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course introduction |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
2 |  Principles of digital empowerment and education innovation |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
3 |  Trends of educational technology |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
4 |  Applications of educational technology |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
5 |  Case studies of educational technology |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
6 |  Managing educational technologies for teaching and curriculum development |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
7 |  Managing educational technologies for teaching and curriculum development |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
8 |  Managing educational technologies for teaching and curriculum development |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
9 |  Mid-term project review |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
10 |  Managing educational technologies for e-learning systems |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
11 |  Managing educational technologies for e-learning systems |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
12 | Case studies of education technology management |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
13 | Managing digital innovations for organizational learning |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
14 |  Managing digital innovations for organizational learning |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
15 | Reflections on Education Technology Management |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
16 | Term Project review |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_40%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
- Attendance and activeness 25% 
- Assignments/Presentation 20% 
- Mid-term report 25% 
- Term Project 30%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Argote, L. (2013). Organizational learning: Creating, retaining and transferring knowledge. Springer (Chapter 1). 
Argote, L., & Miron-Spektor, E. (2011). Organizational learning: From experience to knowledge. Organization Science 22(5), 1123-1137.
Budhai, S.S., McLaughlin, L., Increasing Engagement in Online Learning, 2021.
Levitt, B., & March, J. G. (1988). Organizational learning, Annual Review of Sociology, 14, 319-340. March, J. G. (1991). Exploration and exploitation in organizational learning. Organization Science, 2, 71-87.* 
Dettmer, H. Williams. Goldratt’s Theory of Constraint, A System Approach to Continuous Imporovement. ASQ Quality Press. Milwaukee-Wisconsin, 1997. 
Miller, M., Tech Like a PIRATE: Using Classroom Technology to Create an Experience and Make Learning Memorable, Dave Burgess Consulting, Incorporated, 2020.
Osborne, David & Plastik, Peter. Memangkas Birokrasi-Lima Strategi Menuju Pemerintahan Wirausah (Edisi Revisi). Penerbit PPM, Jakarta, 2000. 
Petty, B.J., Illuminate: Technology Enhanced Learning, Dave Burgess Consulting, Incorporated, 2019.
Senge, Peter M. The Fifth Discipline, The Art & Practice of The Learning Organization. Random House Business Books, London, 1990. 
Senge, Peter, et.al. Buku Pegangan Displin Kelima (Strategi dan alat-alat untuk Membangun Organisasi Pembelajaran)-The Fifth Discipline Fieldbooks. Interaksara, 2002. 
Senge, Peter, et.al. A Fifth Discipline Resource, Schools That Learn. Doubleday Dell Publishing Group Inc. New York. 2000. 
Thomas, S., Howard, N.R., Schaffer, R. Closing the Gap: Digital Equity Strategies for the K-12 Classroom. 2019.
Williams, J., Teach Boldly: Using Edtech for Social Good, 2019.
Yan, M.R.. Handbook of Sustainable System Development for Strategic Management and Innovation, Taipei. 2022. (in Chinese)
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
www.systemdynamics.org
www.clexchange.org

```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
每週二及週四下午2:00~4:00，教師研究室。
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
