國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：知識創新教育與科技研究
#####  Course Name: Study of Knowledge Creation and Educational Technology
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：152603001 Course No.152603001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：教育碩一、教育博一、教育碩二、教育博二 Course Department:Education/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：洪煌堯 Instructor: HONG HUANG-YAO 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
21st Century education needs to prepare students for a knowledge society in which knowledge creation and collaboration is critical. The purpose of this course is to address these important challenges based on the latest research on knowledge creation and new learning designs supported by cutting-edge technologies. As described in a UNESCO report titled Towards Knowledge Societies, “The magnitude of technological change, which over recent decades has affected the means of knowledge creation, transmission and processing, have brought a number of experts to hypothesize that we stand on the threshold of a new era of knowledge" (p.47). In response to this social and technological change, esp. in an AI era, many scholars have pointed out that the kind of learning competences and knowledge skills needed for preparing students to enter knowledge societies has also been under great transformation. For example, as identified from a number of studies that examine future workplace skills (e.g., U.S. Dept. of Labor), scholars have argued that the most essential knowledge-age survival skills by future knowledge workers are the following 7Cs: (1) critical thinking-and-doing, (2) creativity, (3) collaboration & community-building, (4) cross-cultural understanding, (5) communication, (6) computing, and (7) career and learning self-reliance, managing change, and lifelong learning. Accordingly, new ways of teaching and learning are required in order to help students develop such skills. The question is “How?” The purpose of this course is to offer a possibility—i.e., knowledge-building principles—and to explore its potentials and limitations in preparing students for entering into knowledge societies to become knowledge workers and, at the same time, to understand the role of learning technology such as ChatGPT in facilitating this process of educational transformation.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHIJKL雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備教育心理與輔導諮商的專業知識 Specialized knowledge of educational psychology and consultation with counselors
  * B. 具備教育基礎理論與研究方法的內涵 Equipped with fundamental educational theories and research methods
  * C. 具備執行研究與解決問題的能力 Ability to conduct research and solve problems
  * D. 具備創意與獨立思考的能力 Ability to think independently and creatively
  * E. 具備國際觀與學術競爭力 Global perspective and academic competitiveness
  * F. 具備多元教育觀與教育理念 Possessing a diversity of educational values and philosophies
  * G. 具備教育領域中高階專業知識與技能涵養 Acquire advanced professional knowledge and skills in the field of education
  * H. 具備教育領域的專業分析與決策管理能力 Professional analytical and decision making management skills in the field of education
  * I. 具備提出創新性問題解決的研究能力 Research capacity to propose innovative solutions to problems
  * J. 具備獨立研究與發表學術論文的能力 Demonstrated ability to conduct independent research and publish academic papers
  * K. 具備外語的溝通表達能力 Excellent communication skills in a foreign language
  * L. 具備優勢競爭力與合群性 Competitiveness and Synergy


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  1. Be able to learn the know-how of a new software program designed to foster student creativity, called “Knowledge Forum”.
  2. Be able to grasp some of the latest literature in the field of Education for knowledge creation. 
  3. Be able to critically analyze different types of technologies (e.g., software programs, computer games, Websites) and tell if they are in any way in support of the development of knowledge building, as well as creative learning and teaching.
  4. Be able to develop an awareness of how underlying learning theories affects technological design for knowledge creation.


To have fun together learning innovatively and creatively throughout this course.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** |  **課程主題** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** |  **教學活動與作業**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course Introduce  |  Tasks: -Reading Week 2 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum |  Activities: -Technology overview: Learning Knowledge Forum software -Self-introduction  
-KF Manual: see at http://www.knowledgeforum.com/Kforum/products.htm   
(This class will be a hands-on workshop: learning how to use Knowledge Forum--knowledge-building software)  
2 |  "Principle 1- Real Ideas, Authentic Problems |  Knowledge Societies and the role of technology  
Trilling, B., & Hood, P. (1999). Learning technology and education reform in the knowledge age or "We're wired, webbed and windowed, now what?" Educational Technology, 39(3), 5-18. -Self-initiated project-based learning and design activities -Online collaborative discussion activity |  Activities: -Watching TED video: How technology evolves (http://www.ted.com/talks/kevin_kelly_on_how_technology_evolves) -Let students share their ideas derived from viewing TED video content -Let students work collaboratively – analyze the content from assigned reading material (e.g., the 7Cs) -Summarizing all contents organized by students -Exploring the concept of lifelong kindergarten at MIT Media lab Tasks: -Reading Week 3 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum -Watching a TED video: The era of open innovation (http://www.ted.com/talks/charles_leadbeater_on_innovation)  
3 |  Principle 2- Improvable Ideas |  Knowledge-creating school Hargreaves, D. H. (1999). The knowledge-creating school. British Journal of Educational Studies, 47(2), 122-144. -Self-initiated project-based learning and design activities -Online collaborative discussion activity |  Activities: -Posting questions and letting student think about what a knowledge creating school is about -Let students share their ideas about “traditional schools” and “knowledge creating schools”, then write it on whiteboard and share their thought with others -Introduce Web 1.0, Web 2.0, & Web 3D -Explore khanacademy (https://www.khanacademy.org) -Let students share their experience in khanacademy website and try to analyze its strength and limitation Tasks: -Reading Week 4 paper and post at least one question or reflection note in Knowledge Forum -Watching a TED video: Do schools kill creativity (http://www.ted.com/talks/ken_robinson_says_schools_kill_creativity)  
4 |  Principle 3- Idea Diversity |  Learning community Scardamalia, M., & Bereiter (2006). Knowledge building: Theory, pedagogy, and technology. In Sawyer (Ed.), Cambridge handbook of the learning sciences (pp. 97-118). -Self-initiated project-based learning and design activities -Online collaborative discussion activity |  Activities: -Posting questions and letting student think about knowledge building in school context -Let students work collaboratively to clarify what knowledge building is -Organizing all content shared by students and provide a brief conclusion on the contents -Introduce technologies to support effective networking (e.g., MySpace & Social Bookmarking) Tasks: -Reading Week 5 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum  
5 |  Principle 4- Epistemic Agency" |  Knowledge-building pedagogy and tech Hong, H.-Y., Scardamalia, M., & Zhang, J. (2010). Knowledge Society Network: Toward a dynamic, sustained network for building knowledge. Canadian Journal of Learning And Technology / La Revue Canadienne De L’Apprentissage Et De La Technologie, 36(1). -Self-initiated project-based learning and design activities -Online collaborative discussion activity |  Activities: -Watching a TED video: Kids can teach themselves (http://www.ted.com/talks/sugata_mitra_shows_how_kids_teach_themselves) -Let students reflect by themselves about the content from TED video watched -Let students define the concept of “learning”, then share it in -Knowledge Forum -Learning Knowledge Forum analytical tools Tasks: -Reading Week 6 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum  
6 |  Principle 5- Democratizing Knowledge |  Technology in support of community building Sawyer, R. K. (2004). Creative teaching: collaborative discussion as disciplined improvisation. Educational Researcher, 33(2), 12-20. -Self-initiated project-based learning and design activities -Online collaborative discussion activity |  Activities: -Posting question and let student think about what kinds of technologies can be supported in community's - knowledge building activities -Let students share technologies or websites that are used before and post comments in Knowledge Forum -Students try to explore technologies or websites suggested by others and leave comments online -Introduce ubiquitous learning via mobile devices (e.g., iPhone.) Tasks: -Reading Week 7 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum  
7 |  Principle 6- Rise Above |  Teaching for creativity I Scardamalia, M. (2002). Collective cognitive responsibility for the advancement of knowledge. In B. Smith (Ed.), Liberal education in a knowledge society (pp. 67-98). Chicago: Open Court. -Self-initiated project-based learning and design activities -Online collaborative discussion activity |  Activities: -Posting questions and letting student think about what creative teaching is -Let students generate their ideas of creative teaching and post them in Knowledge Forum -Each student tries to provide comments that build on others' ideas -Introduce technologies to support creative teaching (e.g, MOOCs) -Let students share their experience in WebCT and try to analyze its strengths and limitations Tasks: -Prepare midterm project presentation  
8 |  Principle 7- Pervasive Knowledge Building |  Teaching for creativity II (Continuous) Scardamalia, M. (2002). Collective cognitive responsibility for the advancement of knowledge. In B. Smith (Ed.), Liberal education in a knowledge society (pp. 67-98). Chicago: Open Court. -Self-initiated project-based learning and design activities -Online collaborative discussion activity |  Activities: -Introduce Edu games -Let students share their experience in Edu games and try to analyze its strengths and limitations Tasks: -Reading Week 9 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum -Watching a TED video: Where good ideas come from (https://www.ted.com/talks/steven_johnson_where_good_ideas_come_from)  
9 |  Principle 8- Symmetric Knowledge Advancement |  Ideas as conceptual objects Bereiter, C. (1994). Constructivism, Socioculturalism, and Popper's World 3. Educational Researcher, 23(7), 21-23. -Self-initiated project-based learning and design activities -Online collaborative discussion activity |  Activities: P-osting question and letting student think about “ideas as conceptual objects” -Let students generate their thought and post them in Knowledge Forum -Each student tries to provide comments that build on others’ ideas I-ntroduce technologies to support collaboration (e.g., Wiki & Google Documents) Tasks: -Reading Week 10 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum -Watching a TED video: When ideas have sex (https://www.ted.com/talks/ matt_ridley_when_ideas_have_sex)  
10 |  Principle 9- Knowledge Building Discourse |  Improvable ideas (midterm report 2) Papert, S. (1991). "What's the Big Idea: Towards a Pedagogy of Idea Power." IBM Systems Journal 39(3-4). -Self-initiated project-based learning and design activities -Online collaborative discussion activity |  Activities: -Watching a TED video: Build a tower, build a team (https://www.ted.com/talks/ tom_wujec_build_a_tower) -Let students form small groups and discuss the contents of the viewed TED video and provide evidences supported by the reading materials -Let students experience an Edu game : Animal Jam (http://www.animaljam.com/) -Let students try to analyze an Edu game concerning its strengths and limitations Tasks: -Reading Week 11 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum -Watching a TED video: Bring on the learning revolution (https://www.ted.com/talks/ sir_ken_robinson_bring_on_the_revolution)  
11 |  Principle 10-Embedded, Concurrent & Transformative Assessment" |  Student agency Hatano, G., & Inagaki, K. (1986). Two courses of expertise. In H. Stevenson, H. Azuma & K. Hakuta (Eds.), Child development and education in Japan (pp. 262-272). New York: W. H. Freeman and Company. -Self-initiated project-based learning and design activities -Online collaborative discussion activity |  Activities: -Let students form small groups and discuss the concept of “routine expertise” and “adaptive expertise” -Let students search a Youtube video that supported “routine expertise” or “adaptive expertise” -Introduce technologies in support of idea improvement (e.g., SRI Scribble) -Let students share their experience in Scribble and try to analyze its strengths and limitations Tasks: -Reading Week 12 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum  
12 |  Principle 11- Constructive Use of Authoritative Sources" |  Design-based Knowledge building practice Hong, H.-Y., Scardamalia, M., Richard, M., & Teo, C. L. (2015). Fostering sustained knowledge building among elementary students through principle-guided use of analytical tools. Computers & Education, 89, 91-102. -Self-initiated project-based learning and design activities -Online collaborative discussion activity |  Activities: -Posting question and letting student think about design-based knowledge building -Let students form small groups and work collaboratively in discussing design-based knowledge building -Introduce video technologies in support of deep reflection (e.g., YouTube-UC Berkeley) -Let students to explore Prodigy Math Game and try to analyze its strengths and limitations Tasks: -Reading Week 13 paper and post at least one question or a reflection note in Knowledge Forum -Prepare final project presentation  
13 |  Principle 12- Community Knowledge, Collective Responsibility" |  Principle Practical Knowledge: Not a bridge but a ladder Bereiter, C. (2014). Principle practical knowledge: Not a bridge but a ladder. Journal of the Learning Science, 23(1) ,4-17. -Self-initiated project-based learning and design activities -Online collaborative discussion activity |  Activities: -Posting question and letting student think about principled practical knowledge -Let students form small groups and work collaboratively in discussing principled practical knowledge -Summarizing the core concept of principled practical knowledge Task: -Prepare final project presentation  
14 |  Final Presentation 1 |  Presentation and giving feedback accordingly |  Activities: -Final paper/project presentation #1 Task: -Prepare final project presentation  
15 |  Final Presentation 2 |  Presentation and giving feedback accordingly |  Activities: -Final paper/project presentation #2 Tasks: - Prepare final project presentation and project submission  
16 |  Summary and Review of all papers studied online |  Review of all papers studied online and submit final project |  Activities: -Final paper review and summary  Tasks: -Write a reflection paper based on all paper studied in this class -Upload the reflection paper to Knowledge Forum  
Task: -Hand in final report (based on final presentation)  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_20%_
####  其他： Others: Midterm and final project and/or presentation 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Rubric** |  **Criteria** |  **Overall Content Quality** **30%** |  **Overall Source Quality** **30%** |  **Organization** **10%** |  **Visual Clarity & Appeal** **Pictures/Graphic** **15%** |  **Presentation Skill** **15%**  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
**Exceed expectation** **(A) 10~9** |  This project takes a clear position supported logically by extensive, concrete detail and critical interaction with source material. All key points are thoroughly addressed. Material is clear, relevant, accurate and concise. |  Sources are clearly integrated into and advance the argument through accurate use of quotation, paraphrase or summary. The project consistently and accurately uses appropriate documentation style.  Source material fits smoothly into the writer’s own text. |  The organization is logical, paragraphs are unified, exceptionally coherent and contain effective topic sentences, and transitions are effective. There is a clear and easy-to-follow sequence of ideas.  There is no unnecessary duplication of ideas or information. |  The project has an excellent design, layout; it is neat and easy to understand the content. Pictures and graphics are clear and relevant. |  Speaks clearly and confidently. Meaningfully connects to audience. Uses inflections, pauses, and accentuation and word choices strategically. Professional dress and appearance.  
**Meets standard** **(B) 8~7** |  This project takes a clear position supported by moderate but logical detail and critical interaction with source material. All key points are addressed. Material is clear, relevant and accurate, but may be lacking conciseness. |  Sources are clearly related to and advance the argument through accurate and appropriate use of quotation, paraphrase or summary. There is accurate use of appropriate documentation style. Source material fits smoothly into the writer’s own text.  |  The organization is logical, paragraphs are unified, coherent and contain topic sentences, and transitions are effective. There is little unnecessary duplication of ideas or information. |  The project has a nice design, layout; it is neat and easy to read. Most pictures and graphics are clear and relevant. |  Speaks clearly. Connects to audience. Uses inflections, pauses, accentuation and appropriate word choices. Neat and appropriate appearance.  
**Near standard** **(C) 6~5** |  This project takes an apparent position supported by adequate detail and source material, some vagueness in example or relationship of sources to the argument or lapses in logic may be present. Material is appropriate, but may lack a clear connection to the purpose.  There may be some irrelevant information. |  Source material may be used non-critically. Variety of sources is mostly limited and relies on quotation, paraphrase or summary. There are occasional lapses in accurate documentation style but they do not interfere with the reader’s ability to check sources. |  The organization is generally clear, transitions are clear but mechanical. The sequence of ideas may be somewhat difficult to follow. Some unnecessary duplication of ideas or information may be present. |  The project needs improvement in design, layout and neatness. Few of the pictures and graphics are clear and relevant. |  Speaks somewhat clearly. Has some connection with the audience. Uses some inflections, pauses, accentuation but word choices are sometimes inaccurate or inappropriate. Somewhat neat and appropriate appearance.  
**Below standard** **(D) 4~3** |  In this project, the position is confused, vague or uses illogical supporting details. Little evidence of appropriate content. |  Source material is misquoted, used out of context, poorly paraphrased, used non-critically, or has an unclear relationship to the argument. Variety of sources is extremely limited and relies heavily on quotation, paraphrase or summary. Inaccurate use of documentation style interferes with the reader’s ability to check sources. |  The organization is unclear, paragraphs are incoherent or underdeveloped, and transitions are unclear or missing. The sequence of ideas is difficult to follow. Discussion branches off into topics that are not clearly related to the central question. |  The project needs significant improvement in design, layout and neatness. The student’s pictures are not clear or relevant. |  Speaks with little clarity. Has limited connection with the audience. Uses little inflections, pauses, accentuation and work choice is frequently inaccurate or inappropriate. Inappropriate or sloppy appearance.  
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  1. Trilling, B., & Hood, P. (1999). Learning technology and education reform in the knowledge age or "We're wired, webbed and windowed, now what?"  _Educational Technology, 39_(3), 5-18.
  2. Hargreaves, D. H. (1999). The knowledge-creating school.  _British Journal of Educational Studies, 47_(2), 122-144.
  3. Scardamalia, M., & Bereiter (2006). Knowledge building: Theory, pedagogy, and technology. In Sawyer (Ed.),  _Cambridge handbook of the learning sciences_ (pp. 97-118).
  4. Hong, H.-Y., Scardamalia, M., & Zhang, J. (2010). Knowledge Society Network: Toward a dynamic, sustained network for building knowledge.  _Canadian Journal of Learning And Technology / La Revue Canadienne De L’Apprentissage Et De La Technologie, 36_(1).
  5. Sawyer, R. K. (2004). Creative teaching: collaborative discussion as disciplined improvisation.  _Educational Researcher, 33_(2), 12-20.
  6. Scardamalia, M. (2002). Collective cognitive responsibility for the advancement of knowledge. In B. Smith (Ed.),  _Liberal education in a knowledge society_ (pp. 67-98). Chicago: Open Court.
  7. Bereiter, C. (1994). Constructivism, Socioculturalism, and Popper's World 3.  _Educational Researcher, 23_(7), 21-23.
  8. Papert, S. (1991). "What's the Big Idea: Towards a Pedagogy of Idea Power."  _IBM Systems Journal 39_(3-4).
  9. Hatano, G., & Inagaki, K. (1986). Two courses of expertise. In H. Stevenson, H. Azuma & K. Hakuta (Eds.),  _Child development and education in Japan_ (pp. 262-272). New York: W. H. Freeman and Company.
  10. Hong, H.-Y., Scardamalia, M., Richard, M., & Teo, C. L. (2015). Fostering sustained knowledge building among elementary students through principle-guided use of analytical tools.  _Computers & Education, 89, _91-102.
  11. Hong, H.-Y, Chen, M-J, Chang, C-H, Tseng, L-T, Chai, C-S.(2025).AI-supported idea-developing discourse to foster professional agency within teacher communities for STEAM lesson design in knowledge building environment, Computers & Education, 229,https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2025.105241.
  12. Hong, H.-Y.; Lee Y. H.*, 2023.01, 'Computer-supported knowledge building to enhance reading motivation and comprehension, ' British Journal of Educational Technology, Vol.54, No.1, pp.375–393.
  13. Bereiter, C. (2014). Principle practical knowledge: Not a bridge but a ladder._Journal of the Learning Science, 23(1) ,4-17._
  14. Lee, Y-H, Jhang, J-Y, Hong, H-Y(2024). Becoming epistemically active in online reading: Facilitating elementary school students’ multimodal multiple document reading via sourcing organizers. Computers & Education, 216. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2024.105048
  15. Lee, Y. H., & Hong, H. Y. (2022). Preservice teachers’ intention for constructivist ICT integration: implications from their Internet epistemic beliefs and internet-based learning self-Efficacy. Interactive Learning Environments, 32(1), 102–114. https://doi.org/10.1080/10494820.2022.2078986
  16. Collins, A., & Halverson, R. (2010). The Second Educational Revolution: Rethinking Education in the Age of Technology. J. Comput. Assisted Learn. 26 ,18-27


Suggested further readings:
  1. Yang, Y., van Aalst, J., Chan, C. K. K., & Tian, W. (2016). Reflective assessment in knowledge building by students with low academic achievement.  _International Journal of Computer-Supported Collaborative Learning, 11_(3), 281-311. doi:10.1007/s11412-016-9239-1
  2. Popp, J. S., & Goldman, S. R. (2016). Knowledge building in teacher professional learning communities: Focus of meeting matters.  _Teaching and Teacher Education, 59_ , 347-359. doi:10.1016/j.tate.2016.06.007
  3. Hong, H. Y., & Chiu, C. H. (2016). Understanding how students perceive the role of ideas for their knowledge work in a knowledge-building environment.  _Australasian Journal of Educational Technology, 32_(1), 32-46.
  4. Hong, H. Y., Chen, B., & Chai, C. S. (2016). Exploring the development of college students' epistemic views during their knowledge building activities.  _Computers and Education, 98_ , 1-13.


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
https://kf6.nccu.edu.tw
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Tue-14-16, Jing Tang Building 409
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
To be announced. 
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
