國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：如何在全球時代製造世界？卡西勒與古德曼的新視角
#####  Course Name: Ways of Worldmaking in the Global Age: New Perspectives on Ernst Cassirer's and Nelson Goodman's Phi losophy
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：154226001 Course No.154226001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_1.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_15_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：哲學碩一、哲學博一、哲學碩二、哲學博二 Course Department:Philosophy/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：林遠澤、馬愷之 Instructor: LIN YUAN-TSE/MARCHAL KAI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間： Session: 


##  課程簡介Course Description
In this seminar, we will undertake a critical re-reading of the philosophical works of Ernst Cassirer and Nelson Goodman. The German philosopher’s theory of symbolic forms attempts to address the multiplicity of world-presentations in critical continuation of Kant's transcendental philosophy. The world is never simply given, rather it is made by the symbolic activity of the mind. We will look at the development of the early 20thcentury from the idea of one world that has a certain logical structure and that is given to us by elementary experiences in Wittgenstein and Carnap to the idea of a plurality of worlds. The American philosopher Goodman occasionally refers to Cassirer's ideas; he famously claims that “there are many worlds, if any”. Key questions in our seminar will be: How is the basic idea of diverse ways of world-making to be understood? What exactly are symbolic forms? How many symbolic forms are there? How to make sense of the position that there really are different worlds in which objects are constituted differently through symbolic forms? What is the role of cognition in Cassirer’s and Goodman’s approaches? And, finally, what validity can Cassirer's and Goodman's models claim against the backdrop of the East Asian world? How shall we think about cultural differences? Last but not least, Cassirer's treatment of the symbolic form of myth will be critically discussed against the backdrop of Japanese mythology and Chinese interpretations of the Heart-Sutra.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHIJ雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 哲學專業的學術研究能力Academic research ability for philosophy
  * B. 運用哲學素養處理社會問題的能力Calibre of attending to social issues
  * C. 從事哲學相關教育的能力Pedagogical skills for philosophy-related subjects
  * D. 科技與人文關係之反思能力Ability to reflect on technology and humanities
  * E. 學術研究成果的論述與發表能力Ability to narrate research results and publication capacity
  * F. 哲學跨領域研究的開展能力Interdisciplinary research ability
  * G. 哲學專業研究的原創能力Research originality
  * H. 具備獨立哲學教學能力Ability to teach independently
  * I. 哲學專業語言的高級能力Advance academic language skills
  * J. 哲學學術社群的互動交流能力Interaction with academic community


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The aim of this seminar is to critically rethink the philosophy of Cassirer and Goodman in an East Asian context. Students should become familiar with the most important ideas and arguments of the two philosophers and acquire a solid knowledge of the central texts. Additionally, the connection to the Taiwanese life-world will play a special role in this seminar. Expertise from Japanology and Sinology will be brought in.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
姓名 |  現職 |  日期 |  講題 |  備註  
---|---|---|---|---  
林遠澤，馬愷之， MichaelHampe, RajiSteineck  |  政治大學哲學系教授，政治大學哲學系教授，Professor at ETH, Professor at theUniversity of Zurich |  Dec. 17, 2025 |  (1) Short Introduction of the Seminar; “The Reception of Ernst Cassirer in the Chinese-Speaking World” (lecture in Chinese); Discussion: One World or Many Worlds? |  3hours  
Michael Hampe |  Professor at ETH |  Dec. 18, 2025 |  (2) The concept of one world in Wittgenstein and Carnap as preconditions of Goodman’s thinking; |  3 hours  
Raji Steineck  |  Professor at the University of Zurich |  Dec. 19, 2025 |  (3) Symbolic Forms and the Critique of Culture in Cassirer; |  3 hours  
Michael Hampe |  Professor at ETH |  Dec. 22, 2025 |  (4) Goodman’s critique of Carnap and the multiplication of the world; |  3 hours  
Raji Steineck; Michael Hampe; 馬愷之 |  Professor at the University of Zurich; Professor at ETH; 政治大學哲學系教授 |  Dec. 23, 2025 |  (5) Making worlds out of worlds in Goodman and Cassirer; two examples Myth as Symbolic Form in Japan; Worlds in the Heart-Sutra; |  3 hours  
Michael Hampe; Raji Steineck; 林遠澤，馬愷之 |  Professor at ETH; Professor at the University of Zurich; 政治大學哲學系教授，政治大學哲學系教授 |  Dec. 24, 2025 |  (6)  Final Discussion: Symbolic Forms: Unity and Diversity: Students’ Comments, Final Discussion;  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_40%_
####  討論 Discussion
_10%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
The assessment is based on regular attendance at the seminar, active participation in discussions, the presentation of individual philosophical ideas in the form of short interventions, and the final term paper (in English or Chinese). 
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Carnap, Rudolf, The Logical Structure of the World, Illinois 2003;
Cassirer, Ernst. The Philosophy of Symbolic Forms. Volume One: Language. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1955;
Cassirer, Ernst. The Philosophy of Symbolic Forms. Volume Two: Mythical Thought. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1955;
Cassirer, Ernst. The Philosophy of Symbolic Forms. Volume Three: The Phenomenology of Knowledge. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1957;
Goodman, Nelson. Ways of Worldmaking, Indianapolis, IN: Hackett Publishing, 1978;
Hampe, Michael. What Philosophy Is For, transl. by Michael Winkler, Chicago: Chicago University Press, 2018;
Langer, Susan. Philosophy in a New Key. A Study in the Symbolism of Reason, Rite, and Art, Harvard: Harvard University Press, 1957;
Ma, Lin, van Brakel, Jaap. Fundamentals of Comparative and Intercultural Philosophy, New York: SUNY, 2016;
Steineck, Raji. Kritik der symbolischen Formen I: Symbolische Form und Funktion, Stuttgart-Bad Cannstatt: Frommann-Holzboog, 2014;
Steineck, Raji. Kritik Der symbolischen Formen II: Zur Konfiguration Altjapanischer Mythologien, Stuttgart-Bad Cannstatt: Frommann-Holzboog, 2017;
Van Norden, Bryan W., Ivanhoe, Philip J., eds. Readings in Classical Chinese Philosophy, Indianapolis, IN: Hackett Publishing, 2023 (third edition);
Whitehead, Alfred N. Symbolism: Its Meaning and Effect, New York: Fordham University Press, 1985;
Wittgenstein, Ludwig, Tractatus logico-philosophicus, London 1947.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Only selected use. TBA. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
TBA
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
