國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：親子關係研究
#####  Course Name: Parent-Child Relationship Studies
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：157820001 Course No.157820001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：幼教碩一、幼教碩二、幼教碩三、幼教碩四 Course Department:Early Childhood Education/M/1&2&3&4 
  * 授課老師：林高賢 Instructor: LIN GAO-XIAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
Since at least the 1970s, parenting and parent-child interaction have emerged as prominent and evolving areas of study. Today, this discipline encompasses several core dimensions, including the cognition, emotion, and behavior involved in parent-child dynamics.
This course is structured as a “journal club” or “study group,” inviting students to critically examine cutting-edge research on parenting and parent–child relationships. We will closely explore various aspects of modern parent–child dynamics—including what parents think (parenting cognition), what they feel (parental emotion), how they interact with their children (parenting styles and practices across developmental stages), what they do in the digital media era, and how these dimensions collectively shape the parent–child relationship.
Students are expected not only to engage with scholarly articles but also to lead group presentations, participate actively in class discussions, and design and present an original research proposal related to parent-child relationships. Through these diverse learning activities, the course aims to strengthen students’ analytical and communication skills, which are essential for academic and professional development in developmental psychology and family studies.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 1.以多元文化視野進行獨立思考與探究，解決幼教專業問題之創意知能。
  * B. 2.具備幼教思潮與實踐課程教學之專業知能。
  * C. 3.具備幼教機構經營管理與團隊合作之領導知能。
  * D. 4.具備積極參與幼教公共政策形塑及宏觀思維之論述知能。


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course aims to:
  * Develop a comprehensive understanding of key theories and contemporary research on parent-child relationships.
  * Analyze various aspects of parenting and their impact on child development and family dynamics.
  * Apply theoretical frameworks and research findings to real-world parenting contexts and parent education.
  * Cultivate a commitment to ongoing professional growth in developmental psychology and family studies.  



##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week/  
Day** |  **Course Topic** |  **Assigned reading** |  **Teaching Activities & Assignments**  
---|---|---|---  
1st  
09/03 |  Introduction to the Course |  N/A |  At the start of the course, I will provide an introduction to the course structure and expectations. Since this is a discussion-based course, I will then invite all students to introduce themselves. We will also go over the group assignment to help organize groups for the upcoming classes.  
2nd  
09/10 |  Historical Perspectives on Parent–Child Relationships |  Bailey, J. (2014). The history of mum and dad: Recent historical research on parenting in England from the 16th to 20th centuries. History Compass, 12(6), 489–507. https://doi.org/10.1111/hic3.12164 Faircloth, C. (2023). Intensive Parenting and the Expansion of Parenting. In E. Lee, J. Bristow, C. Faircloth, & J. Macvarish (Eds.), Parenting Culture Studies (pp. 33–67). Springer International Publishing. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-44156-1_2 |  Before class, all students are required to read the assigned materials and post critical questions on Moodle. The in-class discussion will primarily revolve around these questions. I will lead the first class to demonstrate how to effectively summarize the readings and facilitate discussion.  
3rd  
09/17 |  Welcoming a Child: The Transition to Parenthood |  van Wijk, D. C., de Valk, H. A. G., & Liefbroer, A. C. (2022). Economic Precariousness and the Transition to Parenthood: A Dynamic and Multidimensional Approach. European Journal of Population, 38(3), 457–483. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10680-022-09617-4 |  Before class, all students are required to read the assigned materials and post critical questions on Moodle. The in-class discussion will primarily focus on these questions, with the assigned group summarizing the readings and leading the discussion.  
4th  
09/24 |  Cognition in Parent-Child Interaction |  Lin, G.-X., Szczygieł, D., & Blanchard, M. A. (2025). The interplay between parental perfectionism, emotional intelligence, and parental burnout. Personality and Individual Differences, 240, 113148. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.paid.2025.113148 |  Before class, all students are required to read the assigned materials and post critical questions on Moodle. The in-class discussion will primarily focus on these questions, with the assigned group summarizing the readings and leading the discussion.  
5th  
10/01 |  Emotion in Parent-Child Interaction |  Kerr, M. L., Rasmussen, H. F., Buttitta, K. V., Smiley, P. A., & Borelli, J. L. (2021). Exploring the complexity of mothers’ real-time emotions while caregiving. Emotion, 21(3), 545–556. https://doi.org/10.1037/emo0000719 |  Before class, all students are required to read the assigned materials and post critical questions on Moodle. The in-class discussion will primarily focus on these questions, with the assigned group summarizing the readings and leading the discussion.  
6th  
10/08 |  Behavior in Parent-Child Interaction |  Chen, Y., Haines, J., Charlton, B. M., & VanderWeele, T. J. (2019). Positive parenting improves multiple aspects of health and well-being in young adulthood. Nature Human Behaviour, 3(7), 684–691. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41562-019-0602-x Larzelere, R. E., Gunnoe, M. L., Roberts, M. W., & Ferguson, C. J. (2017). Children and parents deserve better parental discipline research: Critiquing the evidence for exclusively “Positive” parenting. Marriage & Family Review, 53(1), 24–35. https://doi.org/10.1080/01494929.2016.1145613 |  Before class, all students are required to read the assigned materials and post critical questions on Moodle. The in-class discussion will primarily focus on these questions, with the assigned group summarizing the readings and leading the discussion.  
7th  
10/15 |  Highlight in Parent-Child Interaction: Socialization |  Kochanska, G., Boldt, L. J., & Goffin, K. C. (2019). Early relational experience: A foundation for the unfolding dynamics of parent–child socialization. Child Development Perspectives, 13(1), 41–47. https://doi.org/10.1111/cdep.12308 |  Before class, all students are required to read the assigned materials and post critical questions on Moodle. The in-class discussion will primarily focus on these questions, with the assigned group summarizing the readings and leading the discussion.  
8th 10/22 |  Highlight in Parent-Child Interaction: Autonomy |  Teuber, Z., Tang, X., Sielemann, L., Otterpohl, N., & Wild, E. (2022). Autonomy-related parenting profiles and their effects on adolescents’ academic and psychological development: A longitudinal person-oriented analysis. Journal of Youth and Adolescence, 51(7), 1333–1353. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10964-021-01538-5 |  Before class, all students are required to read the assigned materials and post critical questions on Moodle. The in-class discussion will primarily focus on these questions, with the assigned group summarizing the readings and leading the discussion.  
9th  
10/29 |  Highlight in Parent-Child Interaction: Individual Differences in Children |  Klein, M. R., Lengua, Liliana J., Thompson, Stephanie F., Moran, Lyndsey, Ruberry, Erika J., Kiff, Cara, & and Zalewski, M. (2018). Bidirectional relations between temperament and parenting predicting preschool-age children’s adjustment. Journal of Clinical Child & Adolescent Psychology, 47(sup1), S113–S126. https://doi.org/10.1080/15374416.2016.1169537 |  Before class, all students are required to read the assigned materials and post critical questions on Moodle. The in-class discussion will primarily focus on these questions, with the assigned group summarizing the readings and leading the discussion.  
10th  
11/05 |  Parent-Child Attachment |  Tian, Z., Hazen, N., & Jacobvitz, D. B. (2023). Triadic family interactions at 2 years: The role of prenatal marital quality and infants’ attachment configuration with mother and father. Attachment & Human Development, 0(0), 1–20. https://doi.org/10.1080/14616734.2023.2257677 |  Before class, all students are required to read the assigned materials and post critical questions on Moodle. The in-class discussion will primarily focus on these questions, with the assigned group summarizing the readings and leading the discussion.  
11th  
11/12 |  Parent-Child Communication |  Zhen, B., Yao, B., & Zhou, X. (2022). How does parent–child communication affects posttraumatic stress disorder and growth in adolescents during the COVID-19 pandemic? The mediating roles of self-compassion and disclosure. Journal of Affective Disorders, 306, 1–8. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jad.2022.03.029 |  Before class, all students are required to read the assigned materials and post critical questions on Moodle. The in-class discussion will primarily focus on these questions, with the assigned group summarizing the readings and leading the discussion.  
12th  
11/19 |  Media and Parent-Child Relationship: Technoference |  McDaniel, B. T., & Radesky, J. S. (2018). Technoference: Parent Distraction With Technology and Associations With Child Behavior Problems. Child Development, 89(1), 100–109. https://doi.org/10.1111/cdev.12822 |  Before class, all students are required to read the assigned materials and post critical questions on Moodle. The in-class discussion will primarily focus on these questions, with the assigned group summarizing the readings and leading the discussion.  
13th  
11/26 |  Media and Parent-Child Relationship: Parental mediation |  Koch, T., Laaber, F., & Florack, A. (2024). Socioeconomic status and young people’s digital maturity: The role of parental mediation. Computers in Human Behavior, 154, 1–11. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2024.108157 |  Before class, all students are required to read the assigned materials and post critical questions on Moodle. The in-class discussion will primarily focus on these questions, with the assigned group summarizing the readings and leading the discussion.  
14th  
12/03 |  Parent-Child Relationship in Cultural Contexts |  Lansford, J. E. (2021). Annual research review: Cross-cultural similarities and differences in parenting. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, n/a(n/a). https://doi.org/10.1111/jcpp.13539  Lin, G.-X., Mikolajczak, M., Keller, H., Akgun, E., Arikan, G., Aunola, K., Barham, E., Besson, E., Blanchard, M. A., Boujut, E., Brianda, M. E., Brytek-Matera, A., César, F., Chen, B.-B., Dorard, G., dos Santos Elias, L. C., Dunsmuir, S., Egorova, N., Escobar, M. J., … Roskam, I. (2023). Parenting culture(s): Ideal-parent beliefs across 37 countries. Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology, 54(1), 4–24. https://doi.org/10.1177/00220221221123043 |  Before class, all students are required to read the assigned materials and post critical questions on Moodle. The in-class discussion will primarily focus on these questions, with the assigned group summarizing the readings and leading the discussion.  
15th 12/10 |  Term Project Oral Presentation  |  N/A |  The assigned students will present their research projects and receive feedback from peers and the instructor.  
16th  
12/17 |  Term Project Oral Presentation  |  N/A |  The assigned students will present their research projects and receive feedback from peers and the instructor.  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_80%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  * **In-Class Discussion (20%):** Although attendance is not formally tracked, participation in discussions is essential for deepening your understanding of the course material. This includes engaging with classmates, raising questions based on assigned readings, and actively contributing to class discussions.
  * **Group Presentation (20%):** Each group will be assigned (around) two class sessions to summarize and present key points from the assigned readings and facilitate class discussions. This ensures a comprehensive understanding and encourages critical thinking.
  * **Term Project – Oral Presentation (30%):** Throughout the course, you will encounter various compelling academic articles. You are encouraged to design a potential research project based on these (and other) readings. You will present your project to the class and receive constructive feedback from both peers and the instructor.
  * **Term Project – Written Report (30%):** After incorporating feedback from the oral presentation, you will submit a comprehensive written report detailing your proposed research project.


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
All assigned readings are listed in the Course Schedule & Requirements. At present, only example readings are provided. The reading list will be updated and expanded throughout the semester to include at least two articles per class.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:I am not opposed to using AI to meet certain course requirements, as long as it does not deprive you of valuable learning experiences. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
TBA
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
