國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：數位賦能教育科技管理研究
#####  Course Name: Study on Digital Empowerment and Education Technology Management
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：171918001 Course No.171918001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：教政碩一、教政碩二、教政碩三 Course Department:Graduate Institute of Educational Administration and Policy/M/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：顏敏仁 Instructor: YAN MIN-REN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16 
##  課程簡介Course Description
The course focuses on digital technology enhanced education innovation and management with applications. Over the past several years, the field of Educational Technology Management has undergone a significant transformation. The advancements in digital technologies have led to new educational paradigms, and the need for efficient management and effective implementation of these technologies has never been more pressing. This course provides opportunities for students to explore these changes and share experiences and knowledge to improve educational technology management practices.
This course will help students to reflect on the role various forms of electronic and digital technology can play in the teaching/learning process and how you can engage these processes in your classroom. Students will become skilled in some of the many digital tools used in today's schools, including MIT’s System Dynamics modelling and simulation-based scenario planning. 
This course also consider how a small-scale Educational Technology research project can be conducted in an education environment. Case studies and project-based learning with Education for Sustainable Development and organizational learning will be reviewed to offer practical tools and applied research strategies to students prior to conducting their own Educational Technology research project.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備執行教育行政及學校行政之領導與管理能力
  * B. 具備優質教育行政及學校行政人員專業服務素質( 含創新、自省、溝通表達能力)
  * C. 具備評析與改革教育行政與學校行政實務之能力
  * D. 具備教育行政與政策議題之思維能力與專業知識
  * E. 規劃執行教育行政與政策議題學術研究能力
  * F. 秉持教育行政與學校行政人員應恪遵之道德操守
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is designed for students to develop their understanding of educational technology and digital empowerment and to learn how to manage educational technologies for better educational practices. Therefore, the objectives of this course are for the student to: 
  1. Understand the principles of digital empowerment and trends of educational technology with education innovation issues. 
  2. Manage educational technologies for teaching and curriculum development. 
  3. Manage educational technologies for e-learning systems.
  4. Develop ideas, steps, and apply digital innovations for organizational learning. 
There are three requirements as learning outcomes for students taking this course for a grade. First, active participation in class discussion is expected. Second, each student must prepare an article review (or case review) and present the articles/case to the class. The review should be an analysis of the authors’ theory, methods, and findings. Third, a case study relevant to applications of educational technology and education for sustainable development is required. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
|  週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course introduction |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
2 |  Principles of digital empowerment and education innovation |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
3 |  Trends of educational technology |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
4 |  Applications of educational technology |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
5 |  Case studies of educational technology |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
6 |  Managing educational technologies for teaching and curriculum development |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
7 |  Managing educational technologies for teaching and curriculum development |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
8 |  Managing educational technologies for teaching and curriculum development |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
9 |  Mid-term project review |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
10 |  Managing educational technologies for e-learning systems |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
11 |  Managing educational technologies for e-learning systems |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
12 | Case studies of education technology management |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
13 | Managing digital innovations for organizational learning |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
14 |  Managing digital innovations for organizational learning |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
15 | Reflections on Education Technology Management |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
16 | Term Project review |  Reading assignments |  Preview, participation, group discussion  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.