國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：亞洲安全議題
#####  Course Name: Asian Security Issues
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：203802001 Course No.203802001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_5_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外交三、外交四 Course Department:Diplomacy/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：吳崇涵 Instructor: WU CHONG-HAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一567 Session: mon14-17 


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course aims to investigate the various analytical frameworks in the field of international security with a review of the dominant paradigms that affect the contemporary global order. The purpose of this course is to review a wide range of the literature concerning the study of conflict and energy security in international relations, and particularly the theoretical material concerning war and international violence in the region of East and Southeast Asia. By studying the power competitions between two major powers in the region, the US and China, this course will cover the security issues in this region, and also introduce the ‘hub and spoke’ structure under the US alliances, including the discussions on Japan, Korea, and Southeast Asia region. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 國際關係專業知能
  * B. 具備區域政經文社整合知識
  * C. 研究思辨能力
  * D. 具備反思與克服變遷能力
  * E. 語言運用能力
  * F. 國際運籌帷幄能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The course is designed for the discussion of a range of contemporary issues in the globalization and security issues of modern Asia, including the socio-economic development patterns and positions of selected countries. The instructors will adopt the level of analysis questioning what influences the regional dynamics and integrations among Asian countries, including their security, economic, and social behavior. This course is designed deliberately to accommodate to the discretion and expertise of the instructor concerned.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week 1: Introduction and Syllabus Distribution (please read the syllabus and the week 2 &4 readlings)**
**Week 2: Theoretical Components**
• Readings 
– Basic IR theories and structure. Shambaugh D. and M. Yahuda. Ch 1. 
**Week 3: Conference (no class)**
**Week 4: History and Structure of East Asia**
• Readings
– History of East Asia. Shambaugh D. and M. Yahuda. Ch 2 by Kim. 
– International Structure of East Asia. Shambaugh D. and M. Yahuda. Ch 3 by Acharya. 
– Hierarchy and Anarchy in East Asia. David Kang. 2003. Getting Asia wrong: The need for new analytical framework. International Security 27, 4:57-81.  
-David Lake. 2007. Escape from the state of nature: Authority and hierarchy in world politics. International Security 32, 1:44-79.(optional) 
**Week 5: Teacher's Day (no class)**
**Week 6: Mid Autum Festival (no class)**
**Week 7: The Strategy of the Secondary States in East Asia**
• Readings  
–Lim, Darren, and Zack Cooper. 2015. "Reassessing Hedging: The Logic of Alignment in East Asia." Security Studies 24 (2): 696-727.
-Charles Chong-Han. Wu. 2016. Taiwan Hedging Strategy Against China-The Strategic Implications of Ma Yin-Jeou's Mainland Policy
**Week 8: The Sino-US Competitions**
• Readings
-Richard Hass and David Sacks. 2020. “American Support for Taiwan Must Be Unambiguous: To Keep the Peace, Make Clear to China That Force Won’t Stand,” Foreign Affairs, 2 September.
-Bonnie S. Glaser, Michael J. Mazarr, Michael J. Glennon, Richard Haass, and David Sacks. 2020. “Dire Straits: Should American Support for Taiwan Be Ambiguous?” Foreign Affairs, 24 September.
-Charles Chong-Han Wu. 2021. The End of Washington's Strategic Ambiguity? The Debate over US Policy toward Taiwan. The China Review, Vol.21.no.2, p177-202
**Week 9 The South China Sea Issues (1st paper due)**
• Readings 
-Douglas Gibler. Territorial Peace. Ch2 &3
-Amitav Acharya,  _Constructing a Security Community in Southeast Asia-ASEAN and the Problem of Regional Order_(London: Routledge, 2014), pp. 1-42.
-Charles Chong-Han Wu. 2022. The Maritime Silk Road and Its Implications for China's Regional Policy. 
**Week 14 (Make-up Class for Week 3)**
**Week 15 (Dec 8th~12th) Guest Speaker (Prof. Wang Yuan-Kang)**
• Readings 
**Week 16 The 2nd Paper Presentations (2nd paper due)**
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_40%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Type of Assessment Methods** |  **Weighting** |  **Description of****Assessment**  
---|---|---  
Class participation |  20 % |  Students will participate in the in-class activities and contribute to the discussions and debates.   
2 Short Papers |  80 % |  Students will submit 2 short papers (3000 words max) related to the contemporary security/ conflict issues related to the courses. Each of the papers represent 40% of the final grades, and students will present each of the findings during the semester.   
**I. This course does not allow additional enrolment.**
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
This course has no desinged textbooks. The coursepack will be distributed in the first class. 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
For research, news and other materials, please consult: 
- www.english.cntv.cn/
- www.xinhuanet.com/ 
- www.bbc.com/news 
- paper.people.com.cn/rmrb/html/2015-12/08/nbs.D110000renmrb_01.htm
- www.cnn.com 
- www.ifeng.com
- www.sina.com.cn/
- www.economist.com 
- www.time.com/time 
- www.cn.nytimes.com

```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
https://docs.google.com/document/d/16JfW9EDSGIov0evCmqVJHUjsyf7HDrAGDdV7WeAW4eE/edit
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
