國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：爭辯中的人類安全：正義、平等、人道與人權
#####  Course Name: Debating Human Security: Justice, Equality, Humanity and Rights
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：203915001 Course No.203915001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_40_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外交三 Course Department:Diplomacy/B/3 
  * 授課老師：王韻 Instructor: WANG YUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
###### Human security is a new interdisciplinary topic that originates from two groups of literature: human rights and international security. The first group is full of practitioners and theorists who care about justice, humanity, and equality, mainly defending human rights in the developing world. The second group gathers the best minds of security experts, policy-makers, and strategic analysts who are dedicated to defend the peace, stability, and sustainability of the world, which, arguably, relies on the actions of the developed world. This somehow chaotic and self-contradictory nature makes this topic one of the most fascinating and debatable developments in the IR field. 
###### The main methods used in this class are _cooperative_ and _self-directed_ learning. Therefore, our meetings are designed to be participatory and interactive. If you are uncomfortable with this seminar-style discussion and project-based learning environment, choose other traditional IR courses instead (P.S. If you are unfamiliar with what I just mentioned, you should give this course a try). Also, this course is listed in UCCU’s Micro Program for Sustainability (永續微學程), and participants are encouraged to explore the opportunities of applying related credit programs, service-learning programs, or the newest University Bachelor's Degree (校學士) program. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 國際關係專業知能
  * B. 具備區域政經文社整合知識
  * C. 研究思辨能力
  * D. 具備反思與克服變遷能力
  * E. 語言運用能力
  * F. 國際運籌帷幄能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Students here will first learn various definitions and theories from two sub-disciplines. Then, they will be introduced to case studies in two very different worlds. The final goal is to help students build their perspectives on selected issues: human rights, just war, humanitarian issues, trade and immigration, and sustainable politics. The semester is divided into five issue blocks, each containing roughly one class on debates popular in the developed world and one case on practices in the developing world.
Students are expected to find their topics and inspirations, which start from self-designing a * **City Wanderer©** challenge activity and experiencing justice, equality, humanity, and human rights, or more practically speaking, one of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in their own fashion and perspective. Each student should do a City Wanderer oral exhibition and personal report after Midterm week (TBA). After week 12, students will form case study groups based on their preferences. The ultimate goal of these exercises is to deliberate, formulate, and construct a different kind of academic report about a developing country’s human security conditions. This human security * **guidebook report** should follow regular academic requirements, but include personal narratives and inspirational stories illustrating problems and possible solutions to modern human security issues. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**DATE** |  **READING ASSIGNMENTS** |  **TOPICS TO BE COVERED**  
---|---|---  
W1  9/4 | 
  1. Introduction

| 
  1. Overview of the syllabus
  2. What are justice, equality, humanity, and rights?
  3. How can “you” do about them?

  
W2 9/11 | 
  1. Kaldor, ch.5 A Decade of Humanitarian Intervention,
  2. YouTube Video: New War 2.0: Interview with Kaldor

| 
  1. What is transnational advocacy and transnationalism
  2. Are there universal standards of justice, equality, and rights?
  3. What is human security?


  1. **Group Preference Duo**

  
| 
  1. **Human Rights**

|  **(Universality and Rights)**  
W3 9/18 | 
  1. Universal HR: Expert Group 1 Presentation and Discussion 
  2. Kaldor, ch.2 or Kaldor 2003 “American Power from Compellance to Cosmopolitanism”
  3. **City Wanderer introduction and QA**

| 
  1. **Expert Group 1a(1)**
  2. Who’s rights? The history of human rights
  3. Universal rights?
  4. Civil and political rights vs. socioeconomic rights, which one should be first?
  5. Case: the US, the UDHR, and the UN HR instruments, 

  
W4 9/24 | 
  1. Cultural Relativism and the China Challenge: Expert Group 2 Presentation and Discussion 
  2. Tanner Larkin, 2022, “How China Is Rewriting the Norms of Human Rights,” https://www.lawfaremedia.org/article/how-china-rewriting-norms-human-rights

| 
  1. **Expert Group 1b(2)**
  2. Human Rights: The East and the West 
  3. Third-generation HR: Cultural and group rights
  4. Asian values

Case: China  
| 
  1. **War and Peace**

|  **(****Stability and Responsibility****)**  
W5 10/2 | 
  1. Just War: Expert Group 3 Presentation and Discussion 
  2. Kaldor, Chapter 6 From Just War to Just Peace
  3. Owen, 2011, “R2P: More than a slogan”

**CITY WANDERER© BEGIN** | 
  1. **Expert Group 2a(3)**
  2. Just war theory and humanitarian intervention
  3. UN human security institutions
  4. R2P;
  5. “Ticking time bomb" exception for torture and imprisonment
  6. The issue of responsibility
  7. Case: any Genocide-related civil wars or conflicts

  
W6 10/9 | 
  1. Expert Group 4 Presentation and Discussion: transnational organized crimes (TOCs)

| 
  1. **Expert Group 2b(4)**
  2. The issue of stability
  3. The New Wars debate: Non-state actors
  4. Issue-framing as a tool
  5. Case: human trafficking, drug and weapons smuggling, money laundering, cybercrimes, online gambling etc.

  
| 
  1. **Humanitarian Issues**

|  **(****Issues of Justice and Humanity****)**  
W7 10/16 | 
  1. TED Talk Jody Williams: A realistic vision for world peace
  2. ICBL: http://www.icbl.org/en-gb/home.aspx

| 
  1. **Expert Section 3b(6)**
  2. Transnational advocacy 
  3. Global Civil Society and Cosmopolitanism
  4. The issue of humanity vs. security

Case: Landmine ban movement, DMZ in Korea, Kinmen in Taiwan, or Ukraine War   
W8 10/23 | 
  1. Midterm Week: Exhibition
  2. **CITY WANDERER© REPORT DUE AND SHARING**

| 
  1. In-class presenting and sharing. Report and visual files due on Moodle (4/17)

  
W9 10/30 | 
  1. Biopolitics: Expert Group 5 Presentation and Discussion
  2. Movies: _Contagion_ (2011)

| 
  1. **Expert Group 3a(5)**
  2. Biopolitics and body politics
  3. Biological security vs. Human rights 
  4. Can authorities restrict basic HR during a bio crisis? How and to what degree?
  5. The justice and injustice in face mask rules, vaccination, and quarantine
  6. Case: SARS, MERS, Ebola, COVID-19 and more

  
| 
  1. **Trade****a****nd****Immigration**

|  **(****Development and Equality****)**  
W10 11/6 | 
  1. Expert Group 7: Globalization, Trade War, Cyber Security
  2. (Book & Video)_The Travels of a T-Shirt in the Global Economy_
  3. Wu, Guoguang.
  4. **GROUP CASE STUDY TOPIC DISCUSSION**

| 
  1. **Expert Group 4a(7)**
  2. Right to Development (RTD)
  3. The issue of development and equality
  4. Globalization: its promises and opposition; Winners and losers in trade liberation
  5. MNCs and the “race to the bottom” argument and global supply chain
  6. Two types of anti-globalization activism 
  7. Cyber security 
  8. Taiwan’s IT industry and the “Chip War”
  9. Case: China’s BRI, high tech industries; and the challenge toward liberal economic order; the role of Taiwan

  
W11 11/13 | 
  1. Immigration: Expert Group 8 Discussion
  2. Peggy Levitt,**"’** You Know, Abraham Was Really the First Immigrant’: Religion and Transnational Migration” _International Migration Review_ , 37(3), Transnational Migration: International Perspectives (Fall, 2003): 847-873.

| 
  1. **Expert Group 4b(8)**
  2. Freedom of immigration?
  3. Political refugees or economic migrants?
  4. Internal displacement, statelessness, and the non-refoulement principle

Case: Syria refugee crisis; Central American migrant caravans; Taiwan’s migrant workers; China’s internal migrant workers and more.   
| 
  1. **Green, Pink****and Rainbows**

|  **(Issue****s of Sustainability****)**  
W12 11/20 | 
  1. Environment: Expert Group 9 Discussion
  2. Tim Hayward, 2007. “Human Rights versus Emissions Rights: Climate Justice and the Equitable Distribution of Ecological Space,” _Ethics and International Affairs_
  3. TED Talk by Paul Piff: Does Money Make You Mean

| 
  1. **Expert Group 5a(9)**
  2. Principal-agent theory; common pool problem
  3. Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement
  4. Environmental rights
  5. Environmental activism in the developing world
  6. Can environmental problems be solved by technological progress or “market mechanisms”?
  7. The issue of sustainability

  
W13 11/27 | 
  1. **GROUP CASE PAPER PROPOSAL DUE**

| 
  1. **Paper proposal due on Moodle**

  
W14 12/4 | 
  1. Gender: Expert Group 10 Discussion
  2. Documentary: _The Radical_(2022)

| 
  1. **Expert Section 5b(10)**
  2. Gender, women’s rights and LGBTQ+
  3. Gender as cultural rights or human rights?
  4. Feminist view on HS
  5. Feminism and toxic masculinity
  6. Minority rights vs. majority’s wishes

Case: Taiwan’s same-sex marriage legislation; Sweden's and Canada's “feminist foreign policy”; China’s “pink feminism”  
W15 12/11 | 
  1. Overview and Conclusion on HS
  2. Owen Taylor and Mary Martin, 2010. “The Second Generation of Human Security: Lessons from the UN and EU Experiences?” _International Affairs_ , 85(1).
  3. Richard Hofstadter, Anti-Intellectualism in American Life (1964): 美國的反智傳統：宗教、民主、商業與教育如何形塑美國人對知識的態度 (八旗文化，2025)

| 
  1. Review: Justice, Equality, Humanity and Rights
  2. Second Generation HS

  
W16 12/18 | 
  1. **FINAL Group Presentation**

| 
  1. **Cast study group guidebook presentation**
  2. **GROUP PAPER DUE**

**On 12/20 midnight**  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_40%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  1. Participation: 10%
  2. In-class exercises: 20%
  3. City-Wanderer© report: 20%
  4. Guide Book paper (group): 30%
  5. Presentation (group): 20%


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Mary Kaldor, _Human Security._ Polity Press (2007) [PDF]
*Yoichi Mine, Oscar A. Gomez, Ako Muto, _Human Security Norms in East Asia_ (2019) [ebook]
*Andrew Crabtree, _Sustainability, Capabilities and Human Security_ (2020) [ebook]
*Debasish Nandy; et al. _Human Security in Asia: Interrogating State, Society, and Policy_ (2024) [ebook]
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:sing content-generated AI is encouraged, but proper discourse and full transparency of the process are required. Using AI-generated content without proper citation is considered plagiarism.  Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
**Office address:** General Building 270801, Graduate Institute of East Asian Studies
**Office hours:** Thursday 12-2pm or by appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
