國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際傳播與國際關係
#####  Course Name: International Communication and International Relations
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：203922001 Course No.203922001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_40_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外交三、外交四 Course Department:Diplomacy/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：林碧炤 Instructor: LIN BIH-JAW 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五34 Session: fri10-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to provide an opportunity for students to learn international communication and international relations through an inter-disciplinary, integrated approach. The class will be taught in Chinese, but students are encouraged to answer their examination papers in English. This manual serves as a guide for students to prepare for the class and do their own study either during the academic year on the campus or afterwards. The course covers both theory and practice for the two disciplines: international communication and international relations. Philosophy, Politics and Economics(PPE) will be introduced together with the history of diplomacy and journalism. Students will be able to understand that the two areas of studies are so interweaved to become almost just one huge data bank for the human beings. Please refer to the attached manual of teaching. I will explain the basic concepts first and, then, share my views on the questions listed in the manual. A comprehensive suggested reading list is provided. Students are encouraged to use data, digital and AI materials in the couse of their study.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 國際關係專業知能
  * B. 具備區域政經文社整合知識
  * C. 研究思辨能力
  * D. 具備反思與克服變遷能力
  * E. 語言運用能力
  * F. 國際運籌帷幄能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Most of students in National Chengchi University are prepared themselves to serve the society, both internal and international. Therefore, this course is geared to meet this general need. Students will be able to gain basic, but sufficient knowlege of international communication and international relations as to continue their graduate study or join the ranks of practitioners in Taiwan and abroad. Artificial intelligence(AI) will be introduced as the university has done over the years to make us competitive and innovative in higher education.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
1.Introduction(September 5th)
2.The Study of International Relations(September 12th)
3.The Study of International Communication(September 29th)
4.Culture(September 26th)
5.Technology(October 3rd)
6.Break(October 10th)
7.Political Man and the Rest(October 17th)
8.Mid-term Examination(October24th)
9.Agenda-setting,Strategic Communication and Dtgital Diplomacy(November7th)
10.Data,Digital and AI Sovereignty(November 7th)
11.Digital Trade, Peace and War(November 14th)
12.Western, Non-western and Digital System(November21st)
13.Social Media and International Relations(November 28th)
14.Market(December 5th)
15.Theories, Models and Algorithm(December 12th)
16.Final Examination(December 19th)
Bonus Chapters to be listed in the attached manual
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_80%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Mid-term examination(50%) and Final Examination(50%)
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Charles Kegley and Shannon Blanton, World Politics(New York:Pearsons,2020)
Denis McGuail and Mark Deuze,Media and Mass Cmmunication Theory(London:Sage,2020) translated into Chinese by Luo Shih-hong(Taipei:Wunan,2024)
Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig, Artificial Intelligence:A Modern Approach(New York:Pearson,2020)
For the rest of the suggested reading, please refer to the attached teaching manual listed below
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/07/12 International Communication and International Relations 2025.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Every Friday After the Class(Prior Appointment is Preferred:bjawlin2@nccu.edu.tw)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
To be announced.
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
