國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：循環經濟和永續發展
#####  Course Name: Circular Economy and Sustainability
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：205849001 Course No.205849001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_40_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：財政三甲、財政三乙、財政四甲、財政四乙 Course Department:Public Finance/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：林其昂 Instructor: LIN CHI-ANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
Numerous studies have pointed out that the nature of climate change is an international and intergenerational externality problem. This human-induced change in the rising global mean temperature is mainly due to the enormous emission of carbon dioxide arising from the combustion of fossil fuels. To date, more than 100 countries have adopted a global warming limit of 2°C or below (relative to pre-industrial times) as a general guideline (IPCC, 2007). That is, the concentration of carbon dioxide should be maintained at a range of 400-450 parts per million (ppm). The major topics will at least include: (1) Prof. Kenneth Boulding's Economics, (2) Waste and Externalities, (3) The Outdated Coase Theorem, (4) Capital Depreciation and Regeneration, (5) Endogenous Growth Theory and Sustainable Growth, (6) Circular Goods and Services, (7) Sustainable Finance, (8) Circular Business Models, (9) Circular GDP, (10) The Circular Economy National Income Accounting, (11) The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and (12) Sustainability Policy. Conceptual and theoretical work will be given equal consideration.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 財經基礎知識
  * B. 協調與溝通能力
  * C. 財稅專業知識
  * D. 分析與解決問題的能力
  * E. 財稅民商法律素養


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The global economy has transitioned into a borderless era shaped by climate change. This course focuses on cultivating critical thinking skills in students regarding the circular economy and sustainability challenges. Embracing the interconnected nature of our world today is key to addressing these pressing issues.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**_Selective Lecture & Discussion Topics_**
  1. Prof. Kenneth Boulding's Economics
  2. Waste and Externalities
  3. The Outdated Coase Theorem
  4. Capital Depreciation and Regeneration
  5. Endogenous Growth Theory and Sustainable Growth
  6. Circular Goods and Services
  7. Sustainable Finance
  8. Circular Business Models
  9. Circular GDP
  10. The Circular Economy National Income Accounting
  11. The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
  12. Sustainability Policy


##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Grades will be determined on the basis of the student’s performance in relation to a) class attendance and participation, b) two individual assignments, c) one group presentation on reviewing a sustainability report, and d) one individual report on a field trip. 
a. Class attendance and participation (10%)
b. Individual assignments (20%)
c. Group presentation (30%)
d. Field study report (40%)
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**_Suggested Reading and Texts_**
**(Required) Lin, Brian Chi-ang.****_Circular Economy and Sustainable Endogenous Growth._****Budapest, Hungary: BC4LS, 2023.**
1. Boulding Kenneth E. _Towards a New Economics: Critical Essays on Ecology Distribution and Other Themes_. Aldershot Hants. England: Edward Elgar, 1992.
2. Burger, Philippe. _Sustainable Fiscal Policy and Economic Stability: Theory and Practice._ Northampton, Mass.: Edward Elgar, 2003. 
3. Clinch, J. Peter; Schlegelmilch, Kai; Sprenger, Rolf-Ulrich and Triebswetter, Ursula. (eds.) _Greening the Budget: Budgetary Policies for Environmental Improvement_. Northampton, Mass.: Edward Elgar, 2002.
4. Coase, Ronald H. (1991 Nobel Laureate in Economics) “The Problem of Social Cost.” _Journal of Law & Economics_, October 1960, 3, pp. 1-44.
5. Ferroni, Marco and Mody, Ashoka. (eds.) _International Public Goods: Incentives, Measurement, and Financing_. Norwell, Mass.: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2002.
6. Lin, Brian Chi-ang and Zheng, Siqi. (eds.) _Environmental Economics and Sustainability._ Oxford, UK: Wiley Blackwell, 2017.
7. Myrdal, Gunnar. (1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics) _The Political Element in the Development of Economic Theory (with a New Introduction by_ Richard Swedberg _)._ New Brunswick, N.J.: Transaction Publishers, 1990.
8. Vickrey, William. (1914-1996, 1996 Nobel Laureate in Economics) _Public Economics: Selected Papers by William Vickrey._ Edited by R. Arnott, K. Arrow (1972 Nobel Laureate in Economics), A. Atkinson, and J. Drèze. New York: Cambridge University Press, 1994. 
9. Wissenburg, Marcel. _Green Liberalism: The Free and the Green Society_. London: UCL Press, 1998. 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
https://www.linkedin.com/in/briancalin/
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/07/27 Circular GDP _Brian Lin 3.0_.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Prof. Brian Chi-ang Lin (林其昂), Ph.D.
Office: General Building 270940
Phone: 50940 (campus) or 2938-7296 (O)
E-mail: calin@nccu.edu.tw
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/briancalin/
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
