國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：循環商業模式
#####  Course Name: Circular Business Models
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：205855001 Course No.205855001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_40_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：財政三甲、財政三乙、財政四甲、財政四乙 Course Department:Public Finance/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：林其昂 Instructor: LIN CHI-ANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12 


##  課程簡介Course Description
**The purpose of this course is to help students timely inquire into the significance of circular economy business models in a borderless age of climate change.** Numerous studies have pointed out that the nature of climate change is an international and intergenerational externality problem. This human-induced change in the rising global mean temperature is mainly due to the enormous emission of carbon dioxide arising from the combustion of fossil fuels. To date, more than 100 countries have adopted a global warming limit of 2°C or below (relative to pre-industrial times) as a general guideline (IPCC, 2007). That is, the concentration of carbon dioxide should be maintained at a range of 400-450 parts per million (ppm). As a necessary response to the threat of climate change, more and more corporations and governments have taken measures to promote the circular economy. The major topics will at least include: (1) the circular economy, (2) sustainable development, (3) corporate sustainability, (4) business models, (5) circular business models, (6) natural resource management, (7) waste management, (8) industrial ecology, (9) corporate social responsibility, and (10) green taxation. Conceptual and theoretical work will be given equal consideration.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 財稅民商法律素養
  * B. 財稅專業知識
  * C. 財經基礎知識
  * D. 分析與解決問題的能力
  * E. 協調與溝通能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
With global progress of the circular economy (or at least "don't waste waste") in mind, students taking this course are required to take the following elements into account when they investigate the circular economy business models:
1) Vision of a modern corporation or company along with its goals: How does a corporation define sustainability or a sustainable business? What does business innovation mean by the company? 
2) Measures adopted by the company for fulfilling the goals: Do the measures taken by the company meet the circular economy or zero-waste standard? 
3) Check the existence of a sustainability branch/sector: A company cannot well design a circular business model without a sustainability branch/sector. 
4) Do the CSR/Sustainability reports release the tax return principles or tax-related news? If the company cares about the society and is willing to assume corporate social responsibility, the company will at least honestly file the tax returns.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**(Subject to change)**
1. The Circular Economy
2. Sustainable Development
3. Corporate Sustainability
4. Business Models
5. Circular Business Models 
6. Natural Resource Management
7. Waste Management
8. Industrial Ecology
9. Corporate Social Responsibility
10. Green Taxation
11. Global Sustainability Standards
12. Circular Economy Accounting
13. Group Presentation A&B 
14. Group Presentation C&D 
15. Group Discussions
16. Final In-Class Meeting
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Grades will be determined on the basis of the student's performance in relation to a) class attendance and participation, b) two individual assignments, c) one group presentation on reviewing a Circular Business Model (CBM), and d) one research report.
Class attendance and participation (10%)
Individual assignment (20%)
Group presentation (30%)
Final research report (40%)
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**(Required) Lin, Brian Chi-ang.****_Circular Economy and Sustainable Endogenous Growth._****Budapest, Hungary: BC4LS, 2023.**
1. Boulding Kenneth E. _Towards a New Economics: Critical Essays on Ecology Distribution and Other Themes_. Aldershot Hants. England: Edward Elgar, 1992.
2. **Brears. Robert C._Natural Resource Management and the Circular Economy_ _._ Cham, Switzerland : Palgrave Macmillan, 2018.**
3. Burger, Philippe. _Sustainable Fiscal Policy and Economic Stability: Theory and Practice._ Northampton, Mass.: Edward Elgar, 2003.
4. Clinch, J. Peter; Schlegelmilch, Kai; Sprenger, Rolf-Ulrich and Triebswetter, Ursula. (eds.) _Greening the Budget: Budgetary Policies for Environmental Improvement_. Northampton, Mass.: Edward Elgar, 2002.
5. **De Angelis, Roberta._Business Models in the Circular Economy: Concepts, Examples and Theory._ Cham, Switzerland : Palgrave Macmillan, 2018.**
6. Ferroni, Marco and Mody, Ashoka. (eds.) _International Public Goods: Incentives, Measurement, and Financing_. Norwell, Mass.: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2002.
7. Johnson, Mark W. _Reinvent Your Business Model: How to Seize the Whit Space for Transformative Growth_. Harvard Businees Review Press, 2018.
8. **Lin, Brian Chi-ang and Zheng, Siqi. (eds.)_Environmental Economics and Sustainability._ Oxford, UK: Wiley Blackwell, 2017.**
9. Osterwalder, Alexander and Pigneur, Yves.  _Business Model Generation : A Handbook for Visionaries, Game Changers, and Challengers._ Hoboken,
10. Wissenburg, Marcel. _Green Liberalism: The Free and the Green Society_. London: UCL Press, 1998.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
https://www.linkedin.com/in/briancalin/
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/07/27 Circular GDP _Brian Lin 3.0_.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Prof. Brian Lin (林其昂), Ph.D.
Office: General Building 270940
Hours: Mondays & Wednesdays, 10-11 am 
Phone: 50940 (campus) or 2938-7296 (O)
E-mail: calin@nccu.edu.tw
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/briancalin/
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
