國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：思辨：當代社會議題
#####  Course Name: Contemporary Social Problems and Justice
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：206793001 Course No.206793001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：公行三、公行四 Course Department:Public Administration/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：謝文琪 Instructor: SHIE WEN-CHI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12 


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to introduce the benefits and methods of interdisciplinary study and research for exploring complex social problems and justice. Students will be guided through the process by learning and using critical thinking, problem identification, and problem-solving skills to discuss and explore creative policy approaches by integrating differing perspectives.
***First Day Attendance and regular participation are required. Please read the course schedule carefully.****_If you are not present on the first day of our class, which will lead to 0 for your final grade, you have decided not to remain enrolled, and then please drop this course._**
***** **_This syllabus is a guide for the course and is subject to change with advance notice._****Please pay attention to the newest course announcements, email notifications, and Moodle for updated course materials.**
***This course invites several talented scholars/practitioners from interdisciplinary fields to enrich our weekly topics. Students must attend this course in person, primarily in the classroom or at an assigned location for field trips.**
*This course is highly participatory, integrative, and collaborative. All the assignments are designed to guide students to build critical thinking, problem identification, and problem-solving skills.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 公共行政與政策的基礎理論Basic theories of public administration and policy
  * B. 公共行政與政策的管理知能Management knowledge for public administration and policy
  * C. 公共事務關懷與價值Concern and values for public affairs


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is _highly participatory, integrative, and collaborative_. Please note that this course is designed as _project-based learning with relevant tasks in different phases to help you develop your project and respond to feedback_. All the assignments are designed to guide students in completing their final project with critical thinking, problem identification, and problem-solving skills.
At the completion of this course, students will be able to:
  * Understand the process and language of interdisciplinary study and research.
  * Build tolerance for dissonance in conducting interdisciplinary study and research.
  * Build a deeper understanding of diversity, inclusion, and social justice embedded in the context of interdisciplinary social problems. 
  * Analyze and apply perspectives of multiple disciplines to shape your understanding of complex social problems and social justice.
  * Critically examine, interpret, and explain the multiple perspectives from disciplines of social science that apply to complex social problems and creative policy solutions/resources.
  * Practice collaborative, interdisciplinary approaches to problem identification and disciplinary integration.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Date** |  **Topic and Content**  
---|---|---  
1 |  09/05 |  **Course Introduction and Unflattening**
  * First Day of Class Attendance Questionnaire
  * Self-Introduction within the Discussion Board
  * Introduction to Interdisciplinary Studies
  * Social Problem Discussion: COVID-19
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources

  
2 |  09/12 |  **Introduction to Interdisciplinary Studies, Literature Review Skills & Research Ethics, and Library Resources** Collaboration with NCUU Library
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie
  * Social Problem Discussion: COVID-19 Vaccine, The Tuskegee Experiment, Racial Bias
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources

  
3 |  09/19 |  **Agenda Setting and Problem Definition**
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie
  * Social Problem Discussion and Case Study: Fake News, Environmental Justice, and Human Rights
  * How to do a Field Observation?
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources

  
4 |  09/26 |  **The Interdisciplinary Cognitive Toolkit and Disciplinarities**
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie 
  * Social Problem Discussion: Social Order and Equity: Police Brutality, School Violence, Racial Bias, and Human Rights
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources

  
5 |  10/03 |  **Youth Public Participation Forum and Field Trips** Collaboration with Nanyang Technological University - NTU Singapore 
  * Field Trips:
    * Department for Youth, Taipei City Government 
    * Evergreen Maritime Museum
  * Social Problem Discussion: Citizen Participation for Diversity, Inclusion, and Social Equity

  
6 |  10/10 |  National Holiday: Taiwan National Day – No Class.   
7 |  10/17 |  **Disciplinarities and Project Preparation/Consultation**
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie 
  * Peer Feedback and Feedback from Dr. WenChi Shie and Guest Lecturer: Dr. Chung-An Chen
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources

  
8 |  10/24 |  National Holiday: Taiwan's Retrocession Day – No Class.   
9 |  10/31 |  **Introduction to Political Science & Public Administration**
  * Social Problem Discussion: Collaborative Governance, Collective Action Problems, Nature and Manmade Disasters: Hurricane, Gender Inequality 
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources

  
10 |  11/07 |  **Keynote Speech & Workshop: Introduction to Public Budgeting and Budget Simulation**
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie with Guest Lecturer
  * Interactive Event: Budget Simulation


  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources

  
11 |  11/14 |  **Finding a Social Problem: Field Observation & Presentation**
  * Peer Feedback and Feedback from Dr. WenChi Shie 

  
12 |  11/21 |  **Keynote Speech & Workshop: Transitional Justice for Democracy in Southeast Asi**a
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie with Guest Lecturer
  * Social Problem Discussion: Transitional Justice within Democracy, Citizen Participation, Advocacy 
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources

  
13 |  11/28 |  **Sustainability****Forum and Field Trips** : 
  * Field Trip: CPC Petroleum Discovery Museum
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie
  * Social Problem Discussion: ESG, Renewable Energy, Environmental Justice, and Conservation
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources

  
14 |  12/05 |  **Workshop: Gender Inequality**
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie with Guest Lecturer
  * Social Problem Discussion: Gender Roles and Norms, Gender Pay Gap, Sex Harassment/Assault, and/or the #MeToo Movement
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments

  
15 |  12/12 |  **Keynote Speech & Workshop**: Elevating Academic Voices: Strategies for Student Success at International Conferences
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie with Guest Lecturer
  * Group Project Consultation 
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments

  
16 |  12/19 |  **Disciplinary Integration and Justice: Final Presentation with Q &A**
  * Peer Feedback and Feedback from Dr. WenChi Shie and Guest Lecturer
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments

  
17 |  12/26 |  Completion of the Designated After-Course Assignment or Work  
18 |  01/02 |  Completion of the Designated After-Course Assignment or Work  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_35%_
####  討論 Discussion
_35%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Each student is expected to** :
  * Lead course discussion 
  * Actively participate in course discussions, in-class activities, and group project assignments 
  * Complete all required assignments, activities, and exams on time


* All the assignments are designed to guide you to complete your final project with your critical thinking, problem identification, and problem-solving skills. 
* All students are required to attend each class meeting and be ready to discuss the reading materials and assigned social problems with others.
**Evaluation** :
  1. **Preparation, Engagement, and Participation** (10%)


*Absent 3 times without university-eligible reasons and the permissions from Dr. Shie in advance will lead to zero credit. 
*Also, absence will lead to zero credit for those weekly assignments assigned for the week absent. 
  1. **Individual Assignments**
     * **_Weekly_****Questions** (Due every _Tuesday_ at 11:59 PM, 2-3 meaningful questions based on required readings and weekly topics), **In-Class Activities, and**** _Weekly_****Notes and Reflective Journals** (Due every _Tuesday_ at 11:59 PM) (25%)
     * **Leading Discussion**(Due the _Tuesday_ before presentation at 11:59 PM, Presentation Slides with a List of Questions), **Critique, and Reflection** (Due the following _Tuesday_)(15%)
     * **Finding a Social Problem: Field Observation,****_Online_****Presentation** (10-15 minutes video recording), and **Peer Feedback** (20%)
  2. **Group Assignments**
     * **Group Project and Final Integration Presentation** (20%) 
     * **_Weekly_****Group Discussion and Progress** (10%)


*_Group assignments will be graded based on your role(s) and contributions in each assignment, as well as self & peer evaluation_. Non-participation will lead to a zero for your group project grades. 
*Graduate students are expected to complete their group projects with a full research design and thorough literature review. 
* **Lateness Policy** :
  * If you have any questions or challenges or special learning needs, you need to contact Dr. Shie in advance to discuss your situation and a learning plan. At the same time, you have to reach out to NCCU resources and/or other relevant sources to support your situation and be able to request a letter of support. 
  * Late homework submissions will only be accepted with a University approved excused absence given to the instructor within 24 hours of the missed due date. If you anticipate you won’t be able to meet the deadline with eligible reasons, you have to get an approval from Dr. Shie in advance. 


Without an excused absence, there will be _no late work accepted_. From the time of the due date, students with an excused absence have 24 hours to turn in missing assignments, unless otherwise arranged with the instructor. If you have any questions or difficulties, contact Dr. Shie as soon as possible before the due dates.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  1. Repko, Allen F., Rick Szostak, and Michelle Phillips Buchberger.  _Introduction to interdisciplinary studies_. SAGE Publications, Incorporated, 2019. (This book has been assigned as a textbook within the NCCU library.) 
  2. Other required readings (such as talks, videos, short readings, and journal articles) and weekly assignments will be posted on the class Moodle site to clarify concepts during the semester.


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:AI tools may be used when permitted and only in strict accordance with assignment instructions; students must clearly disclose their use, take full responsibility for the content, and ensure academic  Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
*In-Person/Virtual Office Hours: By Appointment
*Please _include your course name, major, student ID, and/or meeting availability in your email AND cc TAs_. Emails will typically be responded to within 24 to 48 hours.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
