國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：計量經濟學（一）
#####  Course Name: Econometrics (I)
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：208019011 Course No.208019011


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_120_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：經濟三甲、經濟三乙、經濟四甲、經濟四乙 Course Department:Economics/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：廖仁哲 Instructor: LIAO JEN-CHE 
  * 先修科目：[ 統計學（一）(單學期)(修習且及格)] 及 [ 統計學（二）(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([] AND [])
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This is the first of a two-semester sequence of introductory courses in econometrics, with a primary focus on linear regression analysis with cross-sectional data. The purpose of this course is to equip students with the knowledge and practical methods for analyzing economic data, testing economic hypotheses, and measuring empirical relationships between economic variables. We will closely follow Chapters 1-8 of Wooldridge's _Introductory Econometrics_. We will introduce instrumental variables and two-stage least squares (Chapter 15) if time permits. We will use R as the statistical software for this course.
**Prerequisites** : Two semesters of Calculus and two semesters of Statistics.
  * Simple college-level algebra such as equations involving Sigma notation should not present any difficulty for you.
  * You are expected to be familiar with most of the material in Appendices A–C of Wooldridge's text, though a brief review will be provided. In particular, a clear understanding of sampling distributions, statistical inference, and hypothesis testing is essential.
  * While prior knowledge of linear algebra is not required, we plan to work with basic matrix algebra (Appendix D of Wooldridge's text) in our treatment of multiple regression analysis.


###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Upon successful completion, students will have the knowledge and skills to:
  * grasp the foundational concepts and theoretical underpinnings of econometric analysis;
  * communicate the results of econometric analysis in a clear and professional way;
  * conduct econometric analysis of the linear regression model using the statistical software R;
  * lay a strong foundation for further studies in econometrics.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
The tentative course schedule is outlined as follows. The weekly coverage might change as it depends on the progress of the class.
Week |  Date |  Topics |  Wooldridge Chapters  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  09/04 |  Course Introduction & Overview The Nature of Econometrics and Economic Data Review of Math |  Ch 1 App A  
2 |  09/11 |  Review of Probability & Statistics |  App B–C  
3 |  09/18 |  Review of Probability & Statistics (cont'd) |  App B–C  
4 |  09/25 |  **1st Midterm Exam** |   
5 |  10/02 |  The Simple Linear Regression Model |  Ch 2-1–2-5  
6 |  10/09 |  The Multiple Linear Regression (MLR): Estimation |  Ch 3  
7 |  10/16 |  MLR: Estimation (cont'd) |  Ch 3  
8 |  10/23 |  MLR: Inference |  Ch 4  
9 |  10/30 |  **2nd Midterm Exam** |   
10 |  11/06 |  MLR: Inference & OLS Asymptotics |  Ch 4 & 5  
11 |  11/13 |  MLR: Inference & OLS Asymptotics (cont'd) |  Ch 4 & 5  
12 |  11/20 |  MLR: Further Issues |  Ch 6  
13 |  11/27 |  MLR with Qualitative Information |  Ch 7-1–7-4  
14 |  12/04 |  Heteroskedsticity |  Ch 8-1–8-2  
15 |  12/11 |  IV Estimation & 2SLS |  Ch 15-1–15-6  
16 |  12/18 |  **Final Exam** |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_80%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  * Class attendance and participation (10%)
  * Problem sets (25%): 
    * The problem sets will include both problem solving and computer tasks.
    * You are encouraged to form a study group with your classmates, but you must write up your own answers. Problem sets with highly similar answers will not be accepted.
    * No late problem sets will be accepted for any reason.
  * Two mid-term exams (15% for the first exam and 25% for the second).
  * Final exam (25%).
  * All exams will be in-class and closed-book.


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  * Required Textbook: _Introductory Econometrics: A Modern Approach_ , by Jeffrey Wooldridge (2020, 7th edition).
  * Useful Supplementary Textbooks/Resources: 
    * Use R for examples in Wooldridge's Introductory Econometrics: https://www.r-econometrics.com/reproduction/wooldridge/wooldridgeintro/
    * _Introduction to Econometrics_ , by Stock and Watson (2019, 4th Edition).
    * _Introduction to Econometrics with R_. (https://www.econometrics-with-r.org/)


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:第一周上課說明。 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA.
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
