國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：跨境數位貿易
#####  Course Name: Cross Border Digital Trade
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：208769001 Course No.208769001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：經濟三甲、經濟三乙、經濟四甲、經濟四乙 Course Department:Economics/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：史蘭亭 Instructor: SAY ALICIA 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12 


##  課程簡介Course Description
International trade is the economic backbone of most countries in the world. The development of information technologies has pushed forward the trade facilitation and digitalization of cross border exchange. The digital transformation of international trade has reduced the operation time and costs, facilitated the global value chain, and connected the trade and logistics communities globally.
Cross border digital trade attracts higher attention than ever in the post COVID-19 era. While normal international trade procedures and operations which are heavily dependent on paper-documents are interrupted, the use of technologies helps to make the international trade more resilient and lower the barriers of physical documentation. International initiatives as well as respective government’s actions in the implementation of cross border digital trade to increase the scale, scope and speed of trade will be introduced in this course. Challenges including the adoption of new technologies, policy and regulation issues, change of user behavior during the implementation of cross border digital trade will also be discussed in the course.
This course aims to develop students’ knowledge about the digitalization of international trade for increasing their competitive edges in the global business setting.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 經濟專業知識(Expertise in Economics)
  * B. 經濟專業分析能力(Ability of Professional Economic analysis)
  * C. 溝通與表達能力(Communication and expression skills)
  * D. 團隊合作與管理能力(Teamwork and management skills)
  * E. 國際視野與國際競爭力(International Perspective and Competitiveness)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
**Course Objectives:**
This course is targeted at achieving the following objectives:
  1. To enable students with knowledge of cross border digital trade
  2. To equip students with the knowledge of the emerging information technologies in international trade
  3. To prepare students who wish to enter into global trade businesses


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Tentative class schedule**
**Class Topics Overview**  
---  
**Week** |  **Date** |  **Subject** |  **Case Discussion & Activity** |  **Assignments**  
1 |  9/3 |  Introduction to Course Syllabus Background and Introduction to International Trade |  Self Introduction and Grouping |   
2 |  9/10 |  Costs and Challenges of Digital Trade
  * Physical documentation
  * Regulatory Requirements
  * Non-Tariff Barriers

|  Reading: The Costs and Challenges of Implementing Trade Facilitation Measures Reading: The Digital Trade Era – Challenges and Opportunities for Developing Countries |   
3 |  9/17 |  Digital Transformation Path of International Trade
  * Electronic Data Interchange
  * National Single Window
  * Regional Integration
  * Global Initiatives

|  Reading: Handbook of Measuring Digital Trade |   
4 |  9/24 |  National Single Window
  * UN Recommendation and Guidelines on Establishing a Single Window
  * Different models of single window

|  Reading: Recommendation and Guidelines on Establishing a Single Window Reading: Organizational Transformation Using Electronic Data Interchange: The Case of TradeNet in Singapore Class Activity: Country survey |  Country survey  
5 |  10/1 |  Guest Speaker: Mr. Sean Kuei, Executive Officer of Taiwan Bureau of Foreign Trade Title: The discussions of digital trade in multilateral trading system |  |   
6 |  10/8 |  Trade Facilitation in Taiwan
  * Customs Clearance Automation

|  Reading: Single Window for Trade Facilitation: Regional Best Practices and Future |   
|  | 
  * Trade Facilitation
  * National Single Window

|  Development |   
---|---|---|---|---  
7 |  10/15 |  Digital Trade Payment |  |  Course Reflection #1  
8 |  10/22 |  Trade Finance System |  |   
9 |  10/29 |  Public and Private Partnership (PPP) for Trade Facilitation
  * Public Policies
  * Private Initiatives
  * Examples of PPP Collaboration in Trade Facilitation

|  |   
10 |  11/5 |  Final Project Preparation |  Individual/Group meeting with instructor |   
11 |  11/12 |  Case Study: Pan-Asian E-Commerce Alliance
  * Interconnectivity and Interoperability
  * Legal framework

Trusted network |  Case: Pan-Asian E-Commerce Alliance |  Midterm Paper: A review of your country’s digital trade initiatives  
12 |  11/19 |  Regional Initiatives in Trade Facilitation
  * ASEAN Single Window
  * EU Single Window

APEC Digital Trade Agenda
  * APEC Strategies
  * APEC Projects

|  Case: APEC ECO Pathfinder Project Reading: Facilitating Electronic Commerce in APEC: A Case Study of Electronic Certificate of Origin (e-CO) Reading: APEC Framework for Securing the Digital Economy Reading: Next-generation Trade Facilitation for Asian Integration: Cross- border Paperless Trade |   
13 |  11/26 |  Key Success Factors and Evaluation Tools for Digital Trade
  * Key Success Factors
  * Evaluation Tools

|  Reading: Study on Single Window Systems’ International Interoperability: Key Issues for Its Implementation Class Activity: Digital Trade Evaluation Tools |   
14 |  12/3 |  Guest Speaker: Ambassador Tu Taiwan’s Role in Global Trade |  |   
15 |  12/10 |  Regional Integration and Free Trade Agreements
  * WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement
  * Contribution of Digital Trade to Free Trade Agreement
  * Impact of Digital Trade on Trade Costs

|  Reading: Digital Trade Facilitation: Paperless Trade in Regional Trade Agreements Reading: Digitalising Trade Facilitation Implementation Reading: Impact of Implementation of Digital Trade |  Course Reflection #2  
|  |  |  Facilitation on Trade Costs Class Activity: Final Project Proposal |   
---|---|---|---|---  
|  Cloud Computing, Big Data Analytics, AI and Blockchain in Digital Trade
  * Cloud Computing
  * Big Data Analytics in Digital Trade
  * AI in Digital Trade
  * Blockchain for Trade
    * Blockchain application
    * Blockchain Projects in Trade
    * Cross Border Blockchain for Trade

|  Reading: Digital Supply Chain Transformation toward Blockchain Integration System Demonstration: Cross Border Blockchain for Trade |   
16 |  12/17 |  Final Presentation |  Team Presentations of Final Project |  Final Project: Best Practices of Cross Border Digital Trade  
17 |  12/24 |  Wrap Up (optional) |  No Class |   
18 |  12/31 |  Course Review (optional) |  No Class |   
  
  
  

##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
#  **Grading****Policy**
** The final grade consists of:**
  1. Attendance & Participation 20%


The various in-class activities will include case discussion, class participation, and peer review. Students who are unable to attend class should please apply for a leave of absence in advance.
2. Course Reflection 20%
The class reflection should consist of the students’ takeaway, lesson learnt, or insights from the course. It should be a maximum of 2-pages, 12points Times New Roman/Arial, double-spaced.
3. Midterm Paper - A review of your country’s digital trade initiatives 30%
The midterm paper is an individual assignment to understand the students’ knowledge about digital trade. Each student shall write a short review paper about the digital trade initiatives of their respective countries. This assignment should include the concepts from previous lessons, including the challenges faced in the digital trade implementation, the implementation steps, the reengineered processes, the benefits of the digital trade projects and the students’ comments about the current status.
It should be a maximum of 5-pages, 12points Times New Roman/Arial, double- spaced.
4. Final Presentation – Best Practices of Cross Border Digital Trade 30%
The final project is a group project. More explanation on group sizes and how the assignment can be conducted will be provided in class.
Prior to the final presentation, students will be arranged a session to present their proposal about their final projects for obtaining feedback from the instructor and classmates.
Each team shall present a best practice or a new idea of cross border digital trade implementation for the final project. The final project includes an oral presentation and a 2-pages executive summary.
#  **Class****Contract**
As the course instructor, I aim to help students develop their knowledge of cross border digital trade beyond the textbook. To facilitate an engaging learning environment, this class employs a range of activities that draw from the readings, in-class discussion, case studies and live system demonstration that help students understand the essence and application of the assigned materials.
In return, students are expected to attend and actively engage with their classmates in discussions and other class activities and to enable this by preparing in advance and avoiding academic dishonesty (including plagiarism). Students who are unable to attend class should please contact the course instructor in advance to apply for a leave of absence. For group activities, students should also inform their group members.
Note: Students must acknowledge all instances in which generative AI tools were used in an assignment (such as in ideation, research, analysis, editing, debugging, etc.).
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
#  **Learning****Materials**
  1. APEC Framework for Securing the Digital Economy; APEC TEL
  2. Digital Supply Chain Transformation toward Blockchain Integration; Proceedings of the 50th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2017
  3. Digital trade facilitation: Paperless trade in regional trade agreements; ADBI Working Paper, No. 747
  4. Digitalising Trade Facilitation Implementation; The Commonwealth, 160
  5. Facilitating Electronic Commerce in APEC: A Case Study of Electronic Certificate of Origin (e-CO); APEC Policy Support Unit, 2011
  6. Handbook of Measuring Digital Trade, OECD, 2020
  7. Impact of Implementation of Digital Trade Facilitation on Trade Costs; ARTNeT Working Paper Series, No. 174
  8. Next-generation Trade Facilitation for Asian Integration: Cross- border Paperless Trade; Journal of Asian Economic Integration 1(1) 11–31, 2019
  9. Organizational Transformation Using Electronic Data Interchange: The Case of TradeNet in Singapore; Journal of Management Information Systems, 2015
  10. Recommendation and Guidelines on Establishing a Single Window; United Nations Centre for Trade Facilitation and Electronic Business (UN/CEFACT)
  11. Study on Single Window Systems’ International Interoperability: Key Issues for Its Implementation; APEC Policy Support Unit, 2018
  12. The Costs and Challenges of Implementing Trade Facilitation Measures; OECD Trade Policy Papers No. 157


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:For Proofreading Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Wednesday 13:00 - 15:00
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
