國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：民族宗教 
#####  Course Name: Ethnic Religions
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：209061001 Course No.209061001


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：民族二、民族三、民族四 Course Department:Ethnology/B/2&3&4 
  * 授課老師：吳考甯 Instructor: WORK COURTNEY KATHERINE 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
**Course Description**
_This course investigates the variety of traditions found in indigenous communities that were labeled ‘animism’ and considered ‘superstition’ or a primitive form of ‘religion’ by colonizers. The course argues for a critical examination of these forms in order to do three things. The first is to read in ‘animism’ something that is not ‘religious’ but political and economic, which is to say foundational to social life. It involves relationships with other species of plants and animals, often referred to as ‘nature’ as well as other entities not visible to humans, often referred to as ‘gods’ and classified as ‘religion’. The second is to examine the concept of ‘religion’ as something with political and economic roots. We will do this through an examination of the ‘religions’ of pre-colonial Asian states, Buddhism and Islam. The third is to understand the ‘animist’ elements of these ‘religions’ (including Christianity) as they are practiced by contemporary people absorbed by state systems. We will illustrate the course concepts using ethnographic examples from Southeast Asia, with some data from Taiwan._
_We will leave behind the question of how it is that ‘superstitions’ persist into the modern era and will grapple rather with the political and economic paths through which local practices became ‘superstitions’. By exploring those local practices that continue to be practiced both inside and outside of ‘religious’ institutions, we investigate the contemporary lived experiences of Buddhism, Islam, and Christianity in Southeast Asia with the intention to discover the extent to which and the manners through which each accommodates or thwarts local non-doctrinal practices. Our inquiries into spirits and religion in the Southeast Asian context will be supplemented by your own ethnographic field data gathered through small ‘fieldwork’ exercises._
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備民族學基本知識與田野調查能力
  * B. 具備閱讀、分析與撰寫民族誌之能力
  * C. 具備閱讀、分析民族史之能力
  * D. 具備跨領域應用民族學知識之能力
  * E. 具備跨文化、多語言間的溝通能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
__Class Participation__ _:_ Attendance and participation are central to your success in this course. Classes are discussion based and will focus on the key concepts from the readings. Course readings and discussion will form the basis for your exams. In-class writing assignments are included in your class participation grade. Lectures are vital to understanding the new theoretical and conceptual focus of this course, you are expected to come prepared, to take notes, to ask questions, and to engage in discussion. 
__Midterm__ _:_ Short-answer, take home, open book exam. You will be given six questions relating to the first weeks course material. You will choose four and write 500 words per question. Use a recognized citation system to cite materials from the course. An excellent mid-term will make connections across course topics, incorporating multiple readings into each short essay. 
__Ethnographic Fieldwork Exercises__ _:_ You will collect data through four different fieldwork exercises: Two observation exercises and two sets of interviews. The assignments involve collecting primary source ethnographic data, presenting your data (2 page written summary and informal oral discussion), and analyzing your findings.
__Final__ _:_ This is a take-home, open-book exam. You will answer two of four prepared questions, each answer consisting of 500 words. You will then present three things that interested you about the course with detailed descriptions of the thing, including citations from the relevant course materials. You can treat these as individual 500-word essays or combine them into one essay that will not exceed 2000 words. An excellent essay (or collection of essays) will show 1) comprehension of course materials, 2) incorporation of insights from field exercises, 3) connections to broader discussions (be sure you are clear about course materials first!). 
**_Three-credit course_**
To achieve the three-credit course requirement, this course offers at least 54 hours of instruction.
We will meet physically in class for 3-hour sessions weekly (42 hours). Week 8 is a mid-term take-home exam. Week 16 is the final take-home exam. 
Office hour instruction is offered each week (3 hours/wk. adding 48 hours of additional instruction opportunities). 
**_Learning Outcomes:_**
Students will have a strong understanding about the relationship between spirit traditions, religions, economic activities and state systems that can be used as an analytical framework for ethnographic work in religion, politics, economics, or environmental studies. It can also be used to better understand the society we live in and the dynamics of social interactions. In addition, students will gain practical experience with ethnographic data collection methods and the reflexive work of the ethnographer. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**_Course Outline_**
**Week 1: Introduce Course Concepts**
  * Critical reading and thinking skills
    * ACE-FA – the Elements of Critical Assessment and Analysis
      * Tools for critically reading a text (or other document) by identifying the Evidence, the Conversation, the Argument, and the Authority (of the author, artifact, performance, or production)
      * Participant Observation and the Anthropological Method
  * _In-class writing assignment week 1:_ Why am I here studying about religion and spirits in Southeast Asia?  
---  


**The Making of Religion: Theoretical Grounding**
**Weeks 2-3: Inventing Religion**
**_Week 2: Religion is not Secular_**
Asad, Talal. 2003. _Formations of the Secular: Christianity, Islam, Modernity_. Stanford: Stanford University Press. Chapters 1 and 6.
**_Week 3: Religion is Culture_**
Geertz, C. 1973. Religion as a Cultural System. In The Interpretation of Cultures: selected essays, 87–125.
Optional Readings: 
Masuzawa, Tomoko. 2005.  _The invention of world religions, or, How European universalism was preserved in the language of pluralism_. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. 
**_Week 4: Purification_**
Douglas, Mary. Purity and Danger: An Analysis of Concepts of Pollution and Taboo [1966]. London and New York: Routledge, 2002 (p, 1-50).
_Optional Readings_
Mauss, Marcel. 1902 [1972].  _A general theory of magic_. London: Routledge and K. Paul. Chapter 3: The Elements of Magic
Keane, W. (2008). The evidence of the senses and the materiality of religion. Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute, 14(S1), S110–S127. 
_Ethnographic fieldwork Due Week 5:_ Participant observation: Record instances of social or institutional boundary marking that you encounter. Does not have to be related to spirits or religion. We’re looking for the enactment of social classification systems.  
---  
**_Week 5: On Power_**
Sahlins, Marshall. “The Original Political Society.” In _On Kings_ , edited by David Graeber and Marshall Sahlins, 23–65. Chicago: Hau Books, 2017.
_Optional Reading_
Anderson, Benedict R O’G. “The Idea of Power in Javanese Culture.” In Language and Power: Exploring Political Cultures in Indonesia, 17–77. Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1990.
Tannenbaum, N. B. (1987). Tattoos: Invulnerability and Power in Shan Cosmology. American Ethnologist, 14(4), 693–711. 
_Ethnographic fieldwork_ – **On Power** - _Due Week 7:_ What are the characteristics of the powerful people around you. Fellow students, professors, coaches, parents, employers, others…. Watch them. What defines their power? Gather 2 real-time examples (not memories or types), and clearly explain what creates the power you see.  class discussion on observation skills and note taking  
---  
**Week 6-7: Religion and Kings: Prowess and economic success**
**_Week 6: Kings and Religion_**
Gibson, Thomas. 2007.  _Islamic narrative and authority in Southeast Asia: from the 16th to the 21st century_. New York: Palgrave Macmillan. _Chapter 2:_ _The Ruler as Perfect Man in Southeast Asia, 1500-1667_.
_Optional Reading_
Wolters, O. W. 1982.  _History, culture, and religion in Southeast Asian perspectives_. Singapore: Institute of Southeast Asian Studies.  _Miscellaneous Notes on ‘Soul Stuff’ and ‘Prowess’, a ‘Hindu’ Man of Prowess._
**_Week 7: Rice, Religion, and Sovereignty_**
Davis, E. W. (2016). _Deathpower: Buddhism’s Ritual Imagination in Cambodia_. New York: Columbia University Press. Chapt 3: Rice, Water, Hierarchy: The Wild and the Civil. 
_Optional Reading_
Davis, E. W. (2016). _Deathpower: Buddhism’s Ritual Imagination in Cambodia_. New York: Columbia University Press. Chapter 4: Building Deathpower and Rituals of Sovereignty
**_Week 8: Midterm Exam – No Class_**
**_Week 9: The Old Religion_**
Wessing, R. (1995). The Last Tiger in East Java: Symbolic Con­tinuity in Ecological Change. Asian Folklore Studies, 54, 191–218.
_Optional Reading_
Schweyer, Anne Valérie. “Potent Places in Central Vietnam: ‘Everything That Comes Out of the Earth Is Cham.’” Asia Pacific Journal of Anthropology 18, no. 5 (2017): 400–420. 
_Ethnographic Fieldwork Due Week 11:_ Interview 3 people to learn their understandings or family history with religion (faith).  Tell me about…. ?  Discuss the unstructured interview and the work of creating and revising questions  
---  
  
Work, Courtney. “Chthonic Sovereigns? ‘Neak Ta’ in a Cambodian Village.” The Asia Pacific Journal of Anthropology 20, no. 1 (2019): 74–95.
**Week 10-12: Spirits and Religion**
**_Week 10: Christianity_**
Yang, S. Y. (2008). Christianity, identity, and the construction of moral community among the Bunun of Taiwan. Social Analysis, 52(3), 51-74.
_Optional Readings_
Jocano, Landa F. 1965. “Conversion and the Patterning of Christian Experience in Malitbog, Central Panay, Philippines. _Philippine Sociological Review_. 13(2). Pp. 96-119.
Iteanu, Andre. 2017. “Continuity and Breaches in Religion and Globalization, a Melanesian Point of View”. In _The Appropriation of Religion in Southeast Asia and Beyond_. Cham: Palgrave Macmillian.
**_Week 11: Buddhism_**
Ladwig, P. (2016). Religious Place Making: Civilized Modernity and the Spread of Buddhism among the Cheng , a Mon-Khmer Minority in Southern Laos. In M.Dickhardt &A.Lauser (Eds.), _Religion, Place and Modernity. Spatial Articulations in Southeast Asia and East Asia_ (pp. 95–124). Leiden: Brill.
_Optional Readings_
Brac de La Perrière, Bénédicte. “Possession and Rebirth in Burma (Myanmar).” Contemporary 
Buddhism 16, no. 1 (2015): 61–74. https://doi.org/10.1080/14639947.2015.1013000.
Kitiarsa, Pattana. “Magic Monks and Spirit Mediums in the Politics of Thai Popular Religion.” Inter-Asia Cultural Studies 6, no. 2 (2005): 209–26.
**_Week 12: Islam_**
Barraud, Cecile. 2017. “A Wall, Even in Those Days! Encounters with Religions and What Became of the Tradition”, in, _The Appropriation of Religion in Southeast Asia and Beyond._ Cham: Palgrave Macmillian. 
_Optional Readings_
Pemberton, John. 1994. On the Subject of ‘Java’. Ithaca: Cornell University Press. Chapter 4 and Chapter 6.
**Week 13-14: Spirits: Not so supernatural**
**_Week 13: Only natural_**
Janowski, M. (2017). The Dynamics of the Cosmic Conversation: Beliefs about spirits among the Kelabit and Penan of the upper Baram River, Sarawak. In K. Århem & G. Sprenger (Eds.), _Animism in Southeast Asia_ (181–204). London and New York: Routledge.
_Optional Readings_
Boomgaard, P. 2013 [1995]. Sacred Trees and Haunted Forests in Indonesia—Particularly Java, Nineteenth and Twentieth Centuries. In, _Asian Perspectives of Nature: A Critical Approach,_ eds. O. Bruun and A. Kalland, 39-53. New York. Routledge.
_Ethnographic fieldwork Due Week 14:_ Interview three people to learn their understandings about nature. Discuss the unstructured interview and the work of creating and revising questions  
---  
**_Week 14: Transformations_**
Lin, Wei-Ping. 2015. Materializing Magic Power: Chinese Popular Religion in Villages and Cities. Cambridge (Massachusetts) and London: Harvard University Asia Center. Introduction 
_Optional Readings_
Howell, S. 2016. Seeing and Knowing: Metamorphosis and the fragility of species in Chewong animistic ontology. In K. Århem and G. Sprenger (Eds.), _Animism in Southeast Asia_ , (55-72). London; New York: Routledge.
**_Week 15: Resources and Economics_**
Sprenger, Guido. 2014. Where the Dead Go to the Market: Market and Ritual as Social Systems in Upland Southeast Asia. In, _Dynamics of Religion in Southeast Asia: Magic and Modernity_ , eds. V. Gottowik. Amsterdam, University of Amsterdam Press.
_Optional Readings_
Graeber, David. “Fetishism and Social Creativity, or Fetishes Are Gods in Process of Construction” _Anthropological Theory._ (2005) 5:4, 407-438.
Keane, Webb. “The Value of Words and the Meaning of Things in Eastern Indonesian Exchange.” Man 29, no. 3 (1994): 605–29. https://doi.org/10.2307/2804345.
**_Week 16: Final Exam- No Class_**
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_10%_
####  其他： Others: Independent Research 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class Participation 25%
Short Answer Midterm 25%
Field projects 25% 
Final 25%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
All materials for the course are provided through Moodle
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Permitted for cleaning up english grammar and syntax on final versions of assignments.  Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office Hours: Wednesday, 2-5 pm.
Office: Social Science Building, North Wing #270708
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
