國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：社會科學統計方法
#####  Course Name: Statistical Methods in the Social Sciences
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：252019001 Course No.252019001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：政治碩一、政治碩二 Course Department:Political Science/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：戴士展 Instructor: DAI SHIH-CHAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course consists of three major themes: probability theory, hypothesis testing, and experiments. These themes serve as the foundation for students to pursue further studies in advanced statistical analysis and methods such as models with fixed and random effects, time series data, and Bayesian modeling. The order of the themes is arranged in a way to ensure that students understand the fundamentals (probability, descriptive statistics, probability distribution, and sampling distribution) before knowing how to make statistical inferences (hypothesis tests, experiments, and regression analysis). In addition to the lectures, we have labs in which the students will learn how to use R codes to carry out analytical tasks related to the topics we have covered in class.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備創新政治知識之能力
  * B. 具備對政治現象之觀察、分析與獨立思考能力
  * C. 具備對政治哲學解析、比較與建構之能力
  * D. 具備國內、外政治制度與運作之相關知識
  * E. 具備研究設計、分析與詮釋資料之能力
  * F. 具備尊重人權與關懷社會之能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course aims to equip students with the necessary statistical tools and concepts to analyze and interpret data within the context of social science research. The primary learning goals include (1) learning to summarize and describe the essential features of a dataset; (2) understanding the principles of drawing conclusions about populations based on sample data; (3) gaining an understanding of probability and probability/sampling distributions and their application in social science research.; (4) understanding various statistical tests (e.g., t-tests, chi-square tests, etc.) and when to use them, and (5) digging in how to design, conduct, analyze, and interpret experimental research within the context of social science. By achieving these learning goals, students should be well-equipped to conduct rigorous and valid statistical analyses in their social science research, contributing to the advancement of knowledge in social sciences.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** |  **課程主題** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** |  **教學活動與作業**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course introduction |  Agresti, ch 1 |  Data Variables   
2 |  Sampling and measurement |  Agresti, ch 2 |  Sapling bias  Variability Probabilistic sampling Non-probabilistic sampling   
3 |  Getting to know the data  |  Agresti, ch 3 |  Descriptive analysis Visualization  
4 |  Probability |  Sahu, ch 3 & 4 |  Probability Conditional probability Bayes theorem  **_Statement of Research Questions due by end of class_**  
5 |  Probability distribution |  Sahu, ch 6 Agresti, ch 4 |  Probability distributions Sampling distributions  
6 |  Statistical inference: Estimation |  Agresti, ch 5 |  Point and interval estimation  Confidence interval  
7 |  Statistical inference: Significant tests (I) |  Agresti, ch 6.1-6.3 |  Significance test for a mean  Significance test for a proportion **_Literature Review due by end of class_**  
8 |  Statistical inference: Significant tests (II) |  Agresti, ch 6.4-6.8 |  Types of errors  Limitations of significance tests   
9 |  Midterm exam |  Midterm exam  |  **_Midterm exam_**  
10 |  Two group comparisons (I) |  Agresti, ch 7.1-7.4 |  Comparing two means or proportions  
11 |  Two group comparisons (II) |  Agresti, ch 7.5-7.8 |  Other methods for comparing means and proportions   
12 |  Relationships between categorical variables  |  Agresti, ch 8 |  Contingency tables Chi-squared tests  **_Description of Theory due by end of class_**  
13 |  Experiments (I)  |  Druckman, ch 2 |  Scientific process and causal inferenceSampling Measurement Causal inference  
14 |  Experiments (II) |  Druckman, ch 3 & 5 |  Evaluating experiments  Realism Validity Samples Pre-analysis plan  Replication   
15 |  Experiments (III) |  Druckman, ch 4 & 6 |  Audit field experiments Conjoint experiments  Lab-in-the-field experiments **_Description of Hypothesis due by end of class_**  
16 |  Final exam |  Final exam |  **_Final exam_**  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_60%_
####  講述 Lecture
_15%_
####  討論 Discussion
_15%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
This course is organized around lectures, readings, and labs. You are expected to attend lectures as well as lab sections. **_To pass the class, ALL assignments must be completed_** _._
Attendance/Participation and Quizzes (9% and 15%)
Homework (36%)
Research Proposal Statements (2.5%*4)
Midterm (15%)
Final Exam (15%)
Attendance/Participation and Quizzes (9% and 15%): Your preparation, presence, and participation are crucial. Please complete the required readings, be on time for each class, bring all relevant readings, and contribute energetically to the class and lab activities. Your class participation grade will be assessed based on lecture attendance and your contributions to lab activities. At the beginning of each class, students will take a quiz to test their comprehension of the reading materials of that specific week. For the lab, the teaching assistant may distribute additional section syllabi that detail specific lab expectations and requirements. Please note that unexcused absences in lectures or in the lab will count heavily against your grade. An absence will be excused only with documentation of medical necessity or with _prior_ approval from your teaching assistant. 
Homework (36%): Students will complete six problem sets designed to test the comprehension of the material covered in class (see the schedule for the exact due dates). You may consult with your classmates. However, each student must write up and turn in their own work/assignment. Assignments deemed too similar to another student’s assignment will receive a score of 0. Working (struggling) on the homework is the only sure way to master the material. All homework assignments are due at the beginning of the class and need to be submitted to submission links at Moodle.
Research Proposal Statements (2.5*4%): Students are required to finish a proposal adopting quantitative methods. The proposal should highlight the following aspects: selecting an interesting topic, reviewing relevant literature, building your theory, and formulating hypotheses. You are advised to be extremely realistic while preparing your research proposal because you must carry it out in the next semester. An infeasible proposal will receive a very low score for the final paper. I strongly urge you to start thinking about the research topics as early as possible so you can have sufficient time to identify an appropriate topic through trial and error. In order to keep students on track, these project assignments (about one to two pages, doubled spaced) will be assigned throughout the semester (please see the details in the “Schedule” Section). 
Midterm and Final Exams (15%*2): The final exam is not cumulative. You may bring one A4-size note to the exam. A calculator is necessary, hopefully, one with which you are familiar, without connection to the Internet. _Laptop computers are not permitted during the test_. Mark your calendar now because it is **_very unlikely_** that I create make-up tests or re-schedule tests for any one person.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
指定書目
Agresti. (2018). _Statistical Methods for the Social Sciences._ Pearson (5th Edition).
Druckman. (2022). _Experimental thinking_. Cambridge University Press.
Sahu (2024). _Introduction to Probability, Statistics & R: Foundations for Data-Based Sciences_. Cham: Springer International Publishing.
參考書目
Lewin, C. (2005). Elementary quantitative methods.  _Research methods in the social sciences_ , 215-225.
Petscher, Y. M., Schatschneider, C., & Compton, D. L. (Eds.). (2013).  _Applied quantitative analysis in education and the social sciences_. Routledge.
Davies, M. B., & Hughes, N. (2014).  _Doing a successful research project: Using qualitative or quantitative methods_. Bloomsbury Publishing.
Hancock, G. R., Stapleton, L. M., & Mueller, R. O. (Eds.). (2018).  _The reviewer’s guide to quantitative methods in the social sciences_. Routledge.
Stockemer, D., Stockemer, G., & Glaeser, J. (2019).  _Quantitative methods for the social sciences_ (Vol. 50, p. 185). Cham, Switzerland: Springer International Publishing.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:If you use such tools for any assignments in this course, make sure to mark them out and explain how you engage with the outputs from AI tools  Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
11:00-13:00, Tuesdays or Thursdays, or by appointment. 
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
