國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：拉丁美洲政府與政治 
#####  Course Name: Latin American Governments & Politics
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：252914001 Course No.252914001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_10_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：政治碩一、政治博一、政治碩二、政治博二 Course Department:Political Science/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：蘇彥斌 Instructor: SU YEN-PIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
**Latin American Governments and Politics**
Fall 2025
General Building of Colleges 270726
Wednesday 9:10 – 12:00 p.m.
Instructor: Yen-Pin Su (yenpinsu@nccu.edu.tw)
Office: General Building of Colleges 270747
Office Hours: By appointment
**Description**
This course is an introduction to the empirical research of comparative politics. Through thematic discussions of theory-driven research on various issues of Latin American politics, the questions we address in this course include: What leads to regime change? Why do some countries achieve a higher level of economic development than others? Why do some political parties successfully adapt to the changing environment while others collapse? Why do some countries experience more protests while other countries do not? Why does China dominate infrastructure development in some countries but not others? To address these questions, we use analytical tools and theoretical orientations provided by political science and Latin American studies.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHIJKL雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備創新政治知識之能力
  * B. 具備對政治現象之觀察、分析與獨立思考能力
  * C. 具備對政治哲學解析、比較與建構之能力
  * D. 具備國內、外政治制度與運作之相關知識
  * E. 具備研究設計、分析與詮釋資料之能力
  * F. 具備尊重人權與關懷社會之能力
  * G. 具備挖掘與分析政治學研究議題之能力
  * H. 具備對政治現象之觀察、分析與獨立思考能力
  * I. 具備對政治哲學解析、比較與建構之能力
  * J. 具備國內、外政治制度與運作之相關知識
  * K. 具備研究設計、分析與詮釋資料之能力
  * L. 具備尊重人權與關懷社會之能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
**Objectives**
The objective of this course is twofold. First, it helps students learn about issues and comparative politics approaches. Second, it helps students prepare for their thesis/dissertation proposals on topics about comparative politics. This course is divided into two sessions. The first session (Week 1 to Week 4) provides intensive training for students to get familiar with the elements of empirical research design, which is the basis for completing the required assignments for this course. The second session (Week 5 to Week 15) comprises seminars for empirical research papers about Latin American politics. The training helps students enhance their ability to wrestle with different ideas, read empirical papers effectively, and compose thoughtful literature reviews for their thesis/dissertation proposals.
By the end of this semester, students will be able to: 
1. Apply empirical theories to analyze various political issues facing Latin American countries.
2. Conduct critical reviews of empirical political studies.
3. Propose reasonable research questions in comparative politics and develop a well-structured, theoretically relevant, methodologically sound research plan to address these questions.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Class Schedule**
_Week 1 (9/3): Introduction_
Organization of the course schedule; academic ethics, Turnitin, and AI tools; formalities for academic writing; download EndNote software from the NCCU campus-authorized software website through iNCCU.
_Week 2 (9/10): Basics for Empirical Research_
Understand the difference between a thesis, a textbook, and a Wikipedia page; how a research topic and a research question differ; explanatory vs. descriptive research questions.
_Week 3 (9/17): Basics for Designing an Empirical Research Project_
Elements of a well-structured research design; research puzzle (causes vs. consequences); variable measurements; hypotheses building and testing; research strategies (different combinations of the use of theory, data, and method)
_Week 4 (9/24): How to Write a Critical Literature Review Assignment_
Read p.2-p.5 of the syllabus; check the sample theses and Ph.D. dissertations on Moodle; warm-up presentations
****Theme (I): Political Institution****
_Week 5 (10/1): Executive Branch and Presidents_
  1. Corrales, Javier. 2016. "Can Anyone Stop the President? Power Asymmetries and Term Limits in Latin America, 1984–2016." _Latin American Politics and Society_ 58(2): 3-25.
  2. Couto, Lucas. 2025. “Government Formation in Presidentialism: Disentangling the Combined Effects of Pre-Electoral Coalitions and Legislative Polarization.” _Latin American Politics and Society_ 67(1): 36-55.
  3. Arana Araya, Ignacio. 2022. "The Quest for Uncontested Power: Presidents' Personalities and Democratic Erosion in Latin America, 1945–2012." _Political Psychology_ 43(3): 511-528.


_Week 6 (10/8): Executives, Legislature, and Judiciary_
  1. Shair-Rosenfield, Sarah, and Alissandra T. Stoyan. 2017. "Constraining Executive Action: The Role of Legislator Professionalization in Latin America." _Governance_ 30(2): 301-319.
  2. Carreras, Miguel. 2014. "Outsiders and Executive-Legislative Conflict in Latin America." _Latin American Politics and Society_ 56(3):70-92.
  3. Helmke, Gretchen, Yeonkyung Jeong, and Jae-Eun C. Kim. 2022. “Insecure Institutions: A Survivalist Theory of Judicial Manipulation in Latin America.” _Journal of Law and Courts_ 10(2): 265-285.


_Week 7 (10/15): Political Parties_
  1. Burgess, Katrina, and Steven Levitsky. 2003. “Explaining Populist Party Adaptation in Latin America: Environmental and Organizational Determinants of Party Change in Argentina, Mexico, Peru, and Venezuela.” _Comparative Political Studies_ 36(8): 881-911.
  2. Otero-Felipe, Patricia, and Leticia Ruiz Rodríguez. 2024. "Party Discipline in Latin America: The Role of Party Ideology." _Political Studies Review_ 22(3): 608-626. 
  3. Su, Yen-Pin, and Fabricio A. Fonseca. 2021. “Explaining the Party Unity of Governing Parties in Mexico.” _Revista de Ciencia Política_ 41(3): 515-537.


_Week 8 (10/22): Party System Development_
  1. Su, Yen-Pin. 2015. “Party Registration Rules and Party Systems in Latin America.” _Party Politics_ 21(2): 295-308.
  2. Su, Yen-Pin. 2018. “Personal Vote, Spatial Registration Rules, and Party System Nationalization in Latin America.” _International Political Science Review_ 39(2): 192-208.
  3. Su, Yen-Pin. 2022. “Rules for Party Subsidies and Electoral Volatility in Latin America.” _Latin American Research Review_ 57(1): 151-169.


****Theme (II): Regime Change****
_Week 9 (10/29): Democratization and Democratic Backsliding_
  1. Schenoni, Luis L., and Scott Mainwaring. 2019. “US Hegemony and Regime Change in Latin America.” _Democratization_ 26(2): 269-287.
  2. Mantilla, Luis Felipe. 2010. “Mobilizing Religion for Democracy: Explaining Catholic Church Support for Democratization in South America.” _Politics and Religion_ 3(3): 553-579.
  3. Pérez-Liñán, Aníbal and Scott Mainwaring. 2014. “Democratic Breakdown and Survival in Latin America, 1945-2005.” In _Reflections on Uneven Democracies: The Legacy of Guillermo O’Donnell_ , eds. Daniel Brinks, Marcelo Leiras, and Scott Mainwaring, 21-43. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press. (See the scanned chapter on Moodle)


**__Week 10 (11/5): Preparing for: 1. Research proposal; and 2. Country-level dataset assignment__**
_Week 11 (11/12): Post-Authoritarian Challenges_
  1. Lessa, Francesca, Tricia D. Olsen, Leigh A. Payne, Gabriel Pereira, Andrew G. Reiter. 2014. “Overcoming Impunity: Pathways to Accountability in Latin America.” _International Journal of Transitional Justice_ 8(1): 75-98.
  2. Martínez, Christopher A. 2021. “Presidential Instability in Latin America: Why Institutionalized Parties Matter.” _Government and Opposition_ 56: 683–704.
  3. Pérez-Liñán, Aníbal and John Polga-Hecimovich. 2017. "Explaining Military Coups and Impeachments in Latin America." _Democratization_ 24(5): 839-858.


_Week 12 (11/19): Explaining Levels of Democracy and State Capacity_
  1. Rhodes-Purdy, Matthew and Raúl L. Madrid. 2020. "The Perils of Personalism." _Democratization_ 27(2): 321-339. 
  2. Grassi, Davide and Vincenzo Memoli. 2016. "Political Determinants of State Capacity in Latin America." _World Development_ 88 (1): 94-106.
  3. Albertus, Michael and Mark Deming. 2020. "Branching Out: Consequences of the Dispersion of Authoritarian Elites across State and Government in Latin America.” _Democratization_ 28(3): 539–561.


****Theme (III): Political Behavior ****
_Week 13 (11/26): Country-Level Analysis_
  1. Murillo, María Victoria, Virginia Oliveros, and Milan Vaishnav. 2010. “Electoral Revolution or Democratic Alternation?” _Latin American Research Review_ 45 (3): 87-114.
  2. Rau, Eli Gavin, Radha Sarkar and Susan C. Stokes. 2025. "Why Is Participation Low in Referendums? Lessons from Latin America." _Latin American Research Review_ 60(2): 275-297.
  3. Iacoella, Francesco, Patricia Justino, and Bruno Martorano. 2024. “Lockdown and Unrest: Inequality, Restrictions and Protests During COVID-19.” _Journal of Conflict Resolution_ 69(7-8): 1309-1339.


**__**Country-level dataset assignment due in class**__**
_Week 14 (12/3): Individual-Level Analysis_
  1. Reyes-Housholder, Catherine. 2019. “A Theory of Gender’s Role on Presidential Approval Ratings in Corrupt Times.” _Political Research Quarterly_ 73(3): 540-555.
  2. De Ferrari, Ignazio. 2015. “The Successor Factor: Electoral Accountability in Presidential Democracies.” _Comparative Political Studies_ 48 (2): 193-230.
  3. Morgenstern, Scott and Asbel Bohigues. 2021. "Battling for the Hearts and Minds of Latin Americans: Covariance of Attitudes toward the United States and China." _Latin American Research Review_ 56(2): 280-299.


_Week 15 (12/10): Polarization and Populism_
  1. Moraes, Juan A., and Sergio Béjar. 2023. “Electoral Volatility and Political Polarization in Developing Democracies: Evidence from Latin America, 1993–2016.” _Party Politics_ 29(4): 636–647.
  2. Doyle, David. 2011. “The Legitimacy of Political Institutions: Explaining Contemporary Populism in Latin America.” _Comparative Political Studies_ 44(11): 1447-1473.
  3. Huber, Robert A., and Christian H Schimpf. 2016. “Friend or Foe? Testing the Influence of Populism on Democratic Quality in Latin America.” _Political Studies_ 64(4): 872–889.


_Week 16 (12/17): Research Design Proposal Presentations_
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_15%_
####  講述 Lecture
_80%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_5%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Course Materials**
All required readings for this course can be downloaded **for free** on NCCU Libraries Discovery System using NCCU’s WIFI or VPN (off campus).
**Evaluation and Requirements**
Weekly review assignments |  60%  
---|---  
Data analysis assignment  |  5%  
Research proposal (final paper)  |  25%  
Submitted abstract for an international conference |  5%  
Class participation |  5%  
  1. **Weekly review assignments.** Beginning from Week 5, we have three assigned readings for every class meeting. All students must write review assignments for each assigned reading in every class meeting. The review must be structured into the following sections:


(1) The specific research question that the article explicitly addresses
(2) The broader research question that the article could address
(3) Unit of analysis and research scope (specific cases and time periods analyzed in the article)
(4) The dependent variable(s), independent variable(s), and how they are measured
(5) The gap in the literature that the article aims to fill
(6) The main theory proposed by the article (key concept, testable hypotheses/arguments, and their theoretical reasoning)
(7) Main findings
**_(8) Critical review_**
Identifying the specific RQ in section (1) and the broader RQ in section (2) can be confusing for fresh graduate students. The good news is that all assigned readings in this course are empirical research papers. One common feature of the empirical papers is that the title is almost always organized in the manner of “the relationship between the explanatory factors and the outcome to be explained for particular cases.” Let’s take two imaginary papers, for example:
Article #1: “Natural Resource Revenues and Corruption in Latin American Democracies.”
Article #2: “Political Scandals and Electoral Performances of 175 Political Parties in 10 South American Countries (2000-2019).” 
In section (1), the specific RQ can be specified in the article’s title. For article #1, the specific RQ could be: _How do natural resource revenues affect levels of corruption in Latin American democracies?_ Or, it could be: _What is the relationship between natural resource revenues and corruption in Latin American democracies?_ For article #2, the specific RQ could be: _How do political scandals affect the electoral performances of 175 parties in 10 South American countries (2000-2019)?_ Or, it could be: _What is the relationship between political scandals and electoral performances of 175 parties in 10 South American countries (2000-2019)?_
Identifying the broader RQ for section (2) can be challenging. It is because most articles do not mention it explicitly, either in the title or the text. The key point here is to figure out what kind of outcome the article aims to explain. For article #1, the outcome to be explained is the level of corruption. Therefore, the broader RQ is: _Why do some countries have higher levels of corruption than others?_ Or, it could be: _What explains the variation in levels of corruption among different countries?_ For article #2, the outcome to be explained is the electoral performance of political parties. Therefore, the broader RQ is: _Why do some parties have better electoral performances than others?_ Or, it could be: _What explains the variation in electoral performances of parties?_ **Identifying the broader RQ is a crucial training exercise for developing critical literature review skills for your research project.**
Please write the answers to section (1) and section (2) in a question form with a question mark at the end. Do NOT write a declarative statement for the answer to each section. Please note that you can only mention specific cases in your answer for section (1), but NOT for section (2).
In section (3), identify the unit of analysis and specify particular cases and time periods that the article covers. The unit of analysis relates to the “carrier” of the dependent variable, which can be a country, a subnational administrative unit, an organization (e.g., a political party or NGO), or other kinds of unit. For article #1, the unit of analysis is _a country_ , and the research scope is Latin American Democracies from 1960 to 2019. For article #2, the unit of analysis is a party, and the research scope is 175 parties in 10 South American countries (2000-2019).
In section (4), specify what the dependent variable (s) and independent variable(s) are and discuss how these variables are measured in the paper. Then, identify the level of measurement (dichotomous, ordinal, or continuous) and the data sources for the dependent variable(s) and the independent variable(s). 
In section (5), specify the research gap this article aims to fill. Such a gap justifies why this article differs from other related studies and suggests this article’s potential contributions to the existing literature. The gap could be theoretical, empirical, or methodological. Most articles explicitly indicate such a gap in the Introduction section by briefly evaluating previous literature and mentioning what has not been done so far. To write the answer to section (5), you can use the following template: _“Most previous studies have done such and such,**_but few studies_** have done… Therefore, this article aims to fill the gap in the literature by ...,”_ **Identifying the gap in the literature is an essential training exercise for developing skills for figuring out how to make your research project unique. **
In section (6), discuss the theory proposed by the article, including the key concept(s), testable hypotheses (or arguments), and the theoretical reasoning (causal mechanism) behind the hypotheses (arguments). 
In section (7), summarize the main findings of the article. You can get the information in the abstract and statistical regression tables in the main text. **_For the presenters, if the reading provides regression tables, please copy and paste the tables into your PowerPoint slides._**
In section (8), first briefly praise the article (e.g., what contribution this work can make), then provide critical comments and questions. Thoughts for critiques include, but are not limited to: Is the work theoretically or empirically interesting for other cases? Is the transfer of theory to empirics reasonable? How well are the concepts measured? Is the causal relation between variables proper? Are there missing alternative explanations? How reliable are the data? What are the pros and cons of the methodology used by the author(s)? Is the theoretical argument applicable in other contexts for comparative work? Any suggestions to improve this article? You are welcome to check out other similar studies to get some ideas for writing your assignment.
An assignment should be 2 pages in length.**_The critical review section must be no less than 30% of the whole assignment._** Each assignment is worth 2 points. Whether you will get full points for an assignment depends on its quality. In your assignment, please include your name and the bibliographic information for the reading on the top and insert page numbers at the bottom. The format of an assignment must be: 1) in Word format; 3) 12-point font; 4) single-spaced; and 5) with moderate margins. The assignments for a particular weekly class meeting must be posted one day before the class. Your points will be lowered for late or incomplete post. 
**In-Class Presentation:** Beginning from Week 5, we will have weekly in-class presentations for the assigned readings. _A list of presenters will be announced in Week 4._ The presenters can use PowerPoint or simply their assignments for presentations. Each presentation must be no longer than 20 minutes. The presenters must lead the discussions by asking questions to the class. 
  1. **Dataset building and empirical analysis assignments.** You will build a dataset based on the V-Dem database. Visit Moodle for more details. 


  1. **Final paper.** For doctoral students, you are required to write a theory-driven empirical research proposal. For MA students, you can choose to write a data-driven empirical research proposal or a theory-driven one. Your final paper must be structured into five sections:


_I. Introduction._ First, specify your research topic and propose a broader research question. Second, discuss why it matters for academia and policy makers to study the topic and research question that you propose.
_II. Literature review._ First, identify at least two scholarly debates about your DV. Here, you should not limit the literature search by focusing on the cases you are interested in. You have to broaden the search. For instance, if you are interested in studying what explains the variation in levels of corruption in Latin American countries, you should also search for literature about the explanations of corruption in other non-Latin American countries. Second, discuss the main argument of each debate based on a short literature review of at least five studies for each debate. Third, identify the gap in the literature that your project aims to fill. Possible gaps include, but are not limited to, 1) missing explanation, 2) lack of systematic tests of different theories, and 3) lack of examination of certain cases.
_III. Theoretical arguments and testable hypotheses._ Based on the discussion about the gap in the literature, propose an explanation you plan to apply for your empirical analysis. Elaborate on the theoretical reasoning of the explanation. Generate hypotheses based on the explanation.
_IV. Research design._ First, specify the unit of analysis for the empirical analysis. Second, discuss how you measure the dependent variable(s) and the independent variable(s). Third, discuss the research scope, i.e., the specific cases and time periods that you plan to cover. Fourth, indicate possible data sources. Fourth, discuss the methods that you intend to employ for empirical analysis. Last, provide a summary that indicates how your research project contributes to the existing literature. In this summary, you can reiterate that there is a gap in the literature, and your research project aims to fill the gap. 
Before uploading your final paper, make sure to include the title of your project, your name, and page numbers. Moreover, please follow the American Political Science Association (APSA) style to format citations and bibliography/references. Last, the format of this paper must be: 1) in Word format; 3) in 12-point font; 4) single-spaced; and 5) with moderate margins. The length of the paper should be at least **2,000 words in total**. Every student will be assigned to make an in-class presentation for the proposals on Week 16. Every student will also be assigned to be a discussant for one classmate’s presentation.
For MA students, the final paper is graded based on its clarity (30%), quality of literature review (30%), quality and feasibility of the design (30%), and formality (10%). For doctoral students, the final paper is graded based on its clarity (30%), quality of literature review (30%), quality and feasibility of the design (20%), originality and potential contributions (10%), and formality (10%).
  1. **Submitted abstract for an international conference.** You will submit a 150-word abstract for an annual conference held by one of the following professional political science associations (submission deadline in parenthesis): European Political Science Association (mid-December), American Political Science Association (mid-January), or International Political Science Association (late January). You are required to upload to Moodle the confirmation email that shows the association receives your abstract.


  1. **Class participation.** In every class meeting, I will make sure that EVERY student speaks. To facilitate the discussion, please have your assignments at hand. If you are not confident about speaking English, read your assignment out loud. _Being unable to recall what you have written in your assignment is unprofessional and will seriously affect your grade for class participation._


**General Policies**
  1. **Add/drop the course.** Students should drop the course if they 1) miss any of the first three weekly class meetings and 2) plan to skip the last weekly class meeting.
  2. **Auditing students.** I do not permit students to audit this course except my advisees. 
  3. **Plagiarism.** Plagiarism is strictly prohibited in this course. When writing your critical review assignments and final paper, DO NOT copy and paste sentences from articles you read. Always write in your own words by rephrasing or paraphrasing. _You will get a very low grade if I find that your assignments and final paper have severe plagiarism problems_.
  4. **Using AI tools.** Do not use AI tools to produce your assignments and final papers. However, you can use AI tools to proofread your assignments and final paper. _You will get a very low grade if I find that AI tools entirely produced your assignments and final paper_.
  5. **Teamwork.** Teamwork for doing the required assignments and the final paper is NOT allowed. However, you can discuss the coursework with me and your classmates.
  6. **Requirements for Ph.D. students.** I have much higher expectations for doctoral students who take this course. Doctoral students are expected to write better assignments and final papers.
  7. **Using laptops and cell phones in class.** Using laptops for taking notes is permitted. Using cell phones is strictly disallowed in class. If I see any student using a cell phone, I will stop the class until the student stops using the cell phone or leaves the classroom.
  8. **Re-evaluating grades.** You have the right to request a re-evaluation of the grading of your work. In doing so, you must draft a one-page memo outlining why you deserve a better grade. Please note that this memo must be entirely based on the merit of your own work (it cannot be based on comparison with the grades of other students). Remember that your grade will be thoroughly re-evaluated so that the revision might involve a downward or upward change in the grade.


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Do not use AI tools to produce your assignments and final papers. However, you can use AI tools to proofread your assignments and final paper. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office: General Building of Colleges 270747
Office Hours: By appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
