國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：社會科學統計方法實習
#####  Course Name: Statistical Methods in Social Sciences (Lab)
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：252952001 Course No.252952001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_0.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：政治碩一、政治碩二 Course Department:Political Science/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：戴士展 Instructor: DAI SHIH-CHAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二7 Session: tue16-17


##  課程簡介Course Description
The purpose of the lab is to ensure that students can use statistical software to facilitate their data analysis after they have learned relevant concepts in the lectures. The skills of quantitative analysis allow students to observe, describe, and explain political phenomena. Such skills are essential for students to not only complete their final projects but also academic writing. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備創新政治知識之能力
  * B. 具備對政治現象之觀察、分析與獨立思考能力
  * C. 具備對政治哲學解析、比較與建構之能力
  * D. 具備國內、外政治制度與運作之相關知識
  * E. 具備研究設計、分析與詮釋資料之能力
  * F. 具備尊重人權與關懷社會之能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The lab is designed to deepen students’ understanding of the statistical concepts and methods they have acquired in the lectures. In the lab, students will have opportunities to carry out quantitative analysis with real-world examples. The learning-by-doing process can familiarize students with the fundamental know-how to master the statistical software of R.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** |  **課程主題** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** |  **教學活動與作業**  
---|---|---|---  
1-2 |  Prepping for R |  Agresti, ch1-2 |  Installing R and learn the basics of R coding; random sampling   
3-4 |  Descriptive Analysis  |  Agresti, ch 3 |  Using statistics and plots to describe data   
5-6 |  Probability and Sampling Distribution |  Agresti, ch 4 |  Visualize probability and sampling distribution  
7-8 |  Estimation and Hypothesis Testing  |  Agresti, ch 5-6 |  Constructing confidence intervals and calculating p-values for tests   
9 |  Midterm |  Midterm exam |  **_Midterm exam_**  
10-11 |  Two group comparisons  |  Agresti, ch7 |  Comparing two means, proportions, and variances   
12-13 |  Relationship between categorical variables |  Agresti, ch 8 |  Contingency table, chi-squared tests   
14-15 |  Experiment |  Druckman, ch 2-5 |  Analyze experiment data and draw DAGs to describe causal relationships   
16 |  Final Exam |  Final Exam |  Final Exam  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_40%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
This course is organized around lectures, readings, and labs. You are expected to attend lectures as well as lab sections. ** _To pass the class, ALL assignments must be completed_** _._
Attendance and Participation (10%)
Homework (30%)
Quizzes (20%)
Midterm (20%)
Final exam (20%)
Attendance and Participation (10%): Your preparation, presence, and participation are crucial. Please complete the required readings, be on time for each class, bring all relevant readings, and contribute energetically to the lab activities. Teaching assistants may distribute additional section syllabi that detail specific lab expectations and requirements. Please note that unexcused absences in the lab will count heavily against your grade. An absence will be excused only with documentation of medical necessity or with  _prior_ approval from your teaching assistant. 
Homework (30%): Students will complete five problem sets designed to how well you can utilize statistical softwares for data analysis. You may consult with your classmates. However, each student must write up and turn in their own work/assignment. Assignments deemed too similar to another student’s assignment will receive a score of 0. Working (struggling) on the homework is the only sure way to master the material. All homework assignments are due at the beginning of the class. 
Quizzes (20%): In lab sessions, we will conduct in-class quizzes to test students’ comprehension of the materials covered in class. No make-up for quizzes will be arranged. 
Midterm and final exams (20*2%): The exams are  _open book, open-note_. The exams are designed to test your ability to carry out data analysis using either R or STATA. A calculator is necessary, hopefully, one with which you are familiar (with functions no more than + - x ÷ ⎷ xy log exp M).  _Laptop computers are not permitted during the test_. Mark your calendar now because it is ** _very unlikely_** that I will create make-up tests or re-schedule tests for any one person.
Policy on using Generative AI tools: It is totally fine for students to consult with Generative AI tools for learning purposes. However, for completing their assignments and the data analysis project, all the input should be the student's own original work. Violations of this policy will be considered academic misconduct.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
指定書目
Agresti. (2018).  _Statistical Methods for the Social Sciences._ Pearson (5th Edition).
Druckman. (2022).  _Experimental thinking_. Cambridge University Press.
Sahu (2024).  _Introduction to Probability, Statistics & R: Foundations for Data-Based Sciences_. Cham: Springer International Publishing.
參考書目
Lewin, C. (2005). Elementary quantitative methods.  _Research methods in the social sciences_ , 215-225.
Petscher, Y. M., Schatschneider, C., & Compton, D. L. (Eds.). (2013).  _Applied quantitative analysis in education and the social sciences_. Routledge.
Davies, M. B., & Hughes, N. (2014).  _Doing a successful research project: Using qualitative or quantitative methods_. Bloomsbury Publishing.
Hancock, G. R., Stapleton, L. M., & Mueller, R. O. (Eds.). (2018).  _The reviewer’s guide to quantitative methods in the social sciences_. Routledge.
Stockemer, D., Stockemer, G., & Glaeser, J. (2019).  _Quantitative methods for the social sciences_ (Vol. 50, p. 185). Cham, Switzerland: Springer International Publishing.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:倘若使用相關工具，需於作業中註明，並說明 AI 生成之內容如何被呈現在作業中。  Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
每週二、四上午 11 點至下午 1 點，教師辦公室（綜院南棟七樓）
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
