國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際組織
#####  Course Name: Seminar on International Organizations
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：253050001 Course No.253050001


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_25_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外交碩一、外交博一、外交碩二、外交博二 Course Department:Diplomacy/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：蔡沛倫 Instructor: TSAI PEI-LUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course focuses on various inter-governmental organizations (IGOs) which are of particular significance both at the international level and for Taiwan. For each IGO, the course introduces its establishment, objectives, functions, organs, operations, special characteristics, and selected legal and policy issues. The role and work of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) will be incorporated, where relevant.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHIJ雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 國際關係專業知能
  * B. 區域政經文社整合知識
  * C. 研究思辨能力
  * D. 反思與克服變遷能力
  * E. 國際運籌帷幄能立
  * F. 國際關係專業知能
  * G. 具備區域政經文社整合知識
  * H. 研究辨思能力
  * I. 具備反思與克服變遷能力
  * J. 國際運籌帷幄能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  * Understanding common characteristics of IGOs and NGOs.
  * Understanding the primary legal and policy issues concerning selected IGOs.
  * Acquiring the skills necessary for conducting research and delivering presentations on international organiazations and international law.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Date** |  **Topics and Readings** |  **Class Activities**  
---|---|---|---  
01 |  09/04 |  **Course Introduction** |  Lecture  
Readings: Ian Hurd, International Organizations: Politics, Law and Practice 1-15 (4th ed. 2020); Jon Pevehouse & Inken von Borzyskowski, _International Organizations in World Politics_ , _in_ The Oxford Handbook of International Organizations 3 (Jacob Katz Cogan, Ian Hurd & Ian Johnstone eds., 2016).  
02 |  09/11 |  **United Nations – Introduction** |  Lecture, group discussions  
Readings: Karen A. Mingst, Margaret P. Karns & Alynna J. Lyon, The United Nations in the 21st Century 1-61 (6th ed. 2022); GA Resolutions 2758, 65/308, and 67/19. Relevant Lecture: The Procedures for Admission as a Member State of the United Nations and the Procedures for, and Consequences of, Being Considered a Non-Member State by the General Assembly, https://legal.un.org/avl/ls/Johnson_UN.html  
03 |  09/18 |  **United Nations and Maintenance of International Peace and Security** |  Lecture, group discussions  
Readings: UNGA 11th Emergency Special Session Resolutions, https://research.un.org/en/docs/ga/quick/emergency; Michael Wood & Eran Sthoeger, The UN Security Council and International Law 90-135 (2022); Lise Morjé Howard & Anjali Dayal, _Peace Operations_ , _in_ The Oxford Handbook of International Organizations 191 (Jacob Katz Cogan, Ian Hurd & Ian Johnstone eds., 2016). Relevant Lecture: The United Nations and Its Contribution to International Peace, https://legal.un.org/avl/ls/Sarooshi_UN.html  
04 |  09/25 |  **Guest Lecture** |  Lecture, group discussions  
Speaker: Bohumil Doboš (Department of Political Science, Charles University) Tentative Topic: EU, NATO, and Security Issues – Perspectives of Central and Eastern European States   
05 |  10/02 |  **United Nations and Human Rights Protection** |  Lecture, group discussions  
Readings: Georges Minet, _Human Rights Co-Ordination within the UN System_ , _in_ The United Nations and Human Rights: A Critical Appraisal 709 (Frédéric Mégret & Philip Alston eds., 2d ed. 2020); George A. Lopez, _Enforcing Human Rights through Economic Sanctions_ , _in_ The Oxford Handbook of International Human Rights Law 772 (Dinah Shelton ed., 2013).  
06 |  10/09 |  **United Nations and Environmental Protection** |  Lecture, group discussions  
Readings: David A. Wirth, _Environment_ , _in_ The Oxford Handbook of International Organizations 425 (Jacob Katz Cogan, Ian Hurd & Ian Johnstone eds., 2016); Rosalyn Higgins et al, 1 Oppenheim’s International Law: United Nations 908-26 (2017).  
07 |  10/16 |  **Doing Research & Taiwan & International Organizations** |  Lecture, research exercises  
Research Guides: Peace Palace Library, Research Guides, https://peacepalacelibrary.nl/research-guide Anne Burnett, Electronic Resource Guide: International Organizations, https://www.asil.org/sites/default/files/ERG_IO.pdf Readings: Bonnie S. Glaser, Taiwan’s Quest for Greater Participation in the International Community (CSIS Report, Nov. 2013); MOFA, IGO, https://subsite.mofa.gov.tw/enigo/ (in English) https://subsite.mofa.gov.tw/igo/cp.aspx?n=DED5DAB0D6C7BED6 (in Mandarin).  
08 |  10/23 |  **Guest Lecture (TBD)**  
09 |  10/30 |  **Poster Presentations**  
10 |  11/06 |  **World Trade Organizations** |  Lecture, group discussions  
Readings: Peter Van den Bosschen & Werner Zdouc, The Law and Policy of the World Trade Organization: Text, Cases, and Materials 84-172 (5th ed. 2022); Marios C. Iacovides, _Topoi of Ambiguity: WTO Membership without Statehood: The Case of Separate Customs Territories_ , 2019 Hague Y.B. Int’l L. 103; WTO, Separate Customs Territory of Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen and Matsu (Chinese Taipei) and the WTO, https://www.wto.org/english/thewto_e/countries_e/chinese_taipei_e.htm.  
11 |  11/13 |  **Regional Fisheries Management Organizations** |  Lecture, group discussions  
Readings: Rosemary Rayfuse, _Regional Fisheries Management Organizations_ , _in_ The Oxford Handbook on the Law of the Sea 439 (Donald Rothwell et al. eds., 2015).  
12 |  11/20 |  **Take-Home Assignment**  
13 |  11/27 |  **International Labour Organization, IGOs’ External Relations, and Their Role in Settlement of International Disputes** |  Lecture, group discussions  
Readings: Brian Langille, _Labor_ , _in_ The Oxford Handbook of International Organizations 472-89 (Jacob Katz Cogan et al. eds, 2016); Claire La Hovary, _A Challenging Menage a Trois - Tripartism in the International Labour Organization_ , 12 Int’l Org. L. Rev. 204 (2015); John R. Crook, _Dispute Settlement_ , _in_ The Oxford Handbook of International Organizations 644-62 (Jacob Katz Cogan et al. eds, 2016); European Union, The EU’s External Relations, https://www.europarl.europa.eu/factsheets/en/chapter/213/the-eu-s-external-relations  
14 |  12/04 |  **Final Presentations and Discussions**  
15 |  12/11 |  **Final Presentations and Discussions**  
16 |  12/18 |  **Final Presentations and Discussions**  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_35%_
####  講述 Lecture
_25%_
####  討論 Discussion
_15%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_15%_
####  其他： Others: Presentations 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  * Take-Home Assignment: 10%
  * Poster Presentation: 15%
  * Paper Presentation: 20%
  * Paper: 35%
  * Attendance and Participation: 20%


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Course materials for each session will be provided electronically at the beginning of the semester.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:If such tools are used in assignments, papers, etc, the contents generated should be clearly marked with the tool(s) used identified. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Appointments can be made via email.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
N/A
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
