國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：伊斯蘭與中東安全研究
#####  Course Name: Islam and Middle Eastern Security Studies
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：253783001 Course No.253783001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_5_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外交碩一、外交碩二 Course Department:Diplomacy/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：崔進揆 Instructor: TSUI CHIN-KUEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12 


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is divided into three sections: The first section provides an overview of the Middle East, introducing students to both the theoretical and historical foundations of Islam and the Greater Middle East. Through selected readings, students will develop a basic understanding of the region’s history, culture, and politics. Additionally, the course covers the three mainstream international relations (IR) theories—realism, liberalism, and constructivism—which are widely used by regional analysts and IR scholars to study Middle Eastern affairs.
The second section explores topics related to international political economy, identity politics, and securitization. The selected readings demonstrate how material interests, along with social and cultural factors, shape both political and security dynamics in the Middle East. The third section focuses on key contemporary issues discussed by academics and policy practitioners, including: the Arab-Israeli conflict, the U.S.-led war on terror, the rise and fall of the Islamic State (IS), the humanitarian crisis in Syria, the 2017 Qatar diplomatic crisis, and the 2023 Gaza War.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 國際關係專業知能
  * B. 區域政經文社整合知識
  * C. 研究思辨能力
  * D. 反思與克服變遷能力
  * E. 國際運籌帷幄能立


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
On successful completion of this course students should be able to:
Build a basic understanding of Islam and Middle Eastern security
Introduce the approaches to Middle East studies
Know the key issues and present situation in the Middle East
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Topic** |  **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction and Course Orientation |  |   
2 |  IR Theories and the Middle East |  Dunne, T., Kurki, M. & Smith, S. (2016). _International Relations Theory_. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press. Lawson, F. (2016). ‘International Relations Theory and the Middle East.’ In Louise F. (Ed.), _International Relations of the Middle East_(pp. 21-38). Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press. |   
3 |  The Middle East and the Modern State System |  Hinnebusch, R. (2015). _The International Politics of the Middle East_. Manchester, U.K.: Manchester University Press (pp. 64-86). Rogan, E. (2016). ‘The Emergence of the Middle East into the Modern State System.’ In Louise F. (Ed.), _International Relations of the Middle East_(pp. 39-61). Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press. |   
4 |  The Middle East: The Cold War and The Post-Cold War |  Hinnebusch, R. (2015). _The International Politics of the Middle East_. Manchester, U.K.: Manchester University Press (pp. 225-271). Sluglett, P. (2016). ‘The Cold War in the Middle East.’ In Louise F. (Ed.), _International Relations of the Middle East_(pp. 62-78). Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press. Korany, B. (2016). ‘The Middle East Since the Cold War: The Multi-Layered (In)security Dilemma.’ In Louise F. (Ed.), _International Relations of the Middle East_(pp. 79-104). Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press. |   
5 |  The Politics of Identity in Middle East International Relations |  Hinnebusch, R. (2015). _The International Politics of the Middle East_. Manchester, U.K.: Manchester University Press (pp. 64-86). Hinnebusch, R. (2016). ‘The Politics of Identity in Middle East International Relations.’ In Louise F. (Ed.), _International Relations of the Middle East_(pp. 155-75). Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press. Wehrey, F. (2017)._Beyond Sunni and Shia: The Roots of Sectarianism in a Changing Middle East_. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press. |   
6 |  The Arab-Israeli Conflict |  Rashid Khalidi, _The Hundred Years’ War on Palestine: A History of Settler Colonialism and Resistance, 1917-2017_. New York: Metropolitan Books, 2020. Shlaim, A. (2016). ‘The Rise and Fall of the Oslo Peace Process.’ In Louise F. (Ed.), _International Relations of the Middle East_(pp. 285-303). Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press. Smith, C. (2016). ‘The Arab-Israeli Conflict.’ In Louise F. (Ed.), _International Relations of the Middle East_(pp. 259-84). Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press. |   
7 |  The US-Led War in Afghanistan |  Brownlee, J. (2024). ‘Foreign-Imposed Regime Change and the American War in Afghanistan,’ _Political Science Quarterly 139_(3): 361-385. Malkasian, C. (2021). _The American War in Afghanistan_. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press. Walldorf, C. (2022). ‘Explaining the Length and End of U.S. Military Operations in Afghanistan,’ _International Security 47_(1): 93-138. |   
8 |  Mid-term Exam |  Course Review and Discussion |   
9 |  The US-Led War in Iraq  |  Leffler, M. (2022). _Confronting Saddam Hussein: George W. Bush and the Invasion of Iraq_. Miller B. (2010). ‘Explaining Changes in U.S. Grand Strategy: 9/11, the Rise of Offensive Liberalism and the War in Iraq,’ _Security Studies 19_ _(1)_ : 26-65. Schmidt, B. & Williams, M. (2008). ‘The Bush Doctrine and the Iraq War: Neoconservatives Versus Realists,’ _Security Studies 17_(2): 191-220. |   
10 |  Civil War in Syria and the Refugee Crisis |  Bentley, M. (2014). ‘Strategic Taboos: Chemical Weapons and US Foreign Policy,’  _International Affairs_  _90_(5), 1033-1048. Quesnay, A. (2018). _Civil War in Syria: Mobilization and Competing Social Order_. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge University Press. Zelin, A. (2023). _The Age of Political Jihadism: A Study of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham_. London, U.K.: Rowman & Littlefield. |   
11 |  IS and Terrorism |  Byman, D. (2015). _Al Qaeda, The Islamic State, and The Global Jihadist Movement: What Everyone Needs to Know_. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press. Byman, D. (2016). ‘Understanding the Islamic State—A Review Essay,’ _International Security 40_(4): 127-65. Paasche, T. F., & Gunter, M. M. (2016). ‘Revisiting Western Strategies Against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria,’  _The Middle East Journal_  _70_(1): 9-29. |   
12 |  Iran and the Shia Crescent |  Barzegar, K. (2008). ‘Iran and The Shiite Crescent: Myths and Realities,’ _Brown Journal of World Affairs 15_(1): 87-99. Cakmak, C. (2015). ‘The Arab Spring and the Shite Crescent: Does Ongoing Change Serve Iranian Interests,’ _The Review of Faith and International Affairs 13_(2): 52-63. Helfont, S. (2009). ‘The Muslim Brotherhood and the Emerging Shia Crescent,’ _Orbis 53_(2):284-299. Paunic, N. (2016). ‘The Rising Shi’a Crescent: Iranian Smart Power and Implications for the Middle East, Central Asia, and the Persian Gulf,’ _Carleton Review of International Affairs_ 3: 70-92. |   
13 |  Qatar and Small Power Diplomacy |  K. Lina (2013). ‘Qatar’s Foreign Policy: The Limits of Pragmatism,’ _International Affairs 89_(2): 417-431. Kamrava, M. (2011), ‘Mediation and Qatari Foreign Policy,’ _Middle East Journal 65_(4): 539-556. Szalai, M. (2020). ‘Small Regimes in the Middle East: A Conceptual and Theoretical Alternative to Small States in a Non-Western Region,’ _International Politics_ 59(2):167-186. |   
14 |  US-Saudi Foreign Relations Under the Shadow of Ukraine War |  Gause III, F. (2023). ‘The Kingdom and the Power: How to Salvage the US-Saudi Relationship,’ _Foreign Affairs 102_(1): 115-125. Hope, B. and Scheck _,_ J. (2020). _Blood and Oil: Mohammed bin Salman’s Ruthless Quest for Global Power_.London, U.K.: John Murray Press. Sadjadpour, K. (2023). ‘The New Battle for the Middle East: Saudi Arabia and Iran’s Clash of Visions,’ _Foreign Affairs 103_(6): 79-91. |   
15 |  The 2023 Gaza War and the Arab-Israeli Normalization |  Indyk, M. (2024). ‘The Strange Resurrection of the Two-State Solution,’ _Foreign Affairs 103_(2): 8-22. Lynch, M. and Telhami, S. (2024). ‘The Two-State Mirage,’ _Foreign Affairs 103_(2): 23-31. Kaye, D. and Vakil, S. (2024). ‘Only the Middle East Can Fix the Middle East,’ _Foreign Affairs 103_(2): 32-43. Benn, A. (2024). ‘Israel’s Self-Destruction,’ _Foreign Affairs 103_(2): 44-55. |   
16 |  Final Exam |  Final Essay |  Final Essay (5,000-5,500 words)  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class Participation: 30%
Oral Presentation: 30%
Final Essay (5,000-5,500 words): 40%
Students are required to submit final essays in **Week 16**. Written work must be submitted in BOTH electronic and hard copy formats.
  * Electronic submission: Email a copy to the lecturer (chinkuei@nccu.edu.tw) by the due date.
  * Hard copy submission: Submit a printed copy to the main administration office of Department of Diplomacy by the due date.


Late submissions will be penalized at 5% per day. **_No extensions will be given_**. If you are unable to submit your work on time, you must submit it as soon as you can with written evidence for the reason for lateness.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Core Readings
Fawcett, L. (2016). _International Relations of the Middle East_ (4th Edition). Oxford, U.K.: Oxford University Press.
Hinnebusch, R. (2015). _The International Politics of the Middle East_ (2nd Edition). Manchester, U.K.: Manchester University Press.
Rogan, E. (2009). _The Arab: A History_. New York: Basic Books.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
N/A
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
TBA
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
