國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：思辨：當代社會議題
#####  Course Name: Contemporary Social Problems and Justice
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：256656001 Course No.256656001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：公行碩一、公行碩二 Course Department:Public Administration/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：謝文琪 Instructor: SHIE WEN-CHI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12 
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to introduce the benefits and methods of interdisciplinary study and research for exploring complex social problems and justice. Students will be guided through the process by learning and using critical thinking, problem identification, and problem-solving skills to discuss and explore creative policy approaches by integrating differing perspectives.
*First Day Attendance and regular participation are required. Please read the course schedule carefully._If you are not present on the first day of our class, which will lead to 0 for your final grade, you have decided not to remain enrolled, and then please drop this course._
* _This syllabus is a guide for the course and is subject to change with advance notice._Please pay attention to the newest course announcements, email notifications, and Moodle for updated course materials.
*This course invites several talented scholars/practitioners from interdisciplinary fields to enrich our weekly topics. Students must attend this course in person, primarily in the classroom or at an assigned location for field trips.
*This course is highly participatory, integrative, and collaborative. All the assignments are designed to guide students to build critical thinking, problem identification, and problem-solving skills.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 公共行政與政策分析的專業知識整合Integrated professional knowledge for public administration and policy analysis
  * B. 獨立實務調查與學術研究Independent research and study ability
  * C. 全球公民社會的責任與價值The responsibility and value for global civil society
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is _highly participatory, integrative, and collaborative_. Please note that this course is designed as _project-based learning with relevant tasks in different phases to help you develop your project and respond to feedback_. All the assignments are designed to guide students in completing their final project with critical thinking, problem identification, and problem-solving skills.
At the completion of this course, students will be able to:
  * Understand the process and language of interdisciplinary study and research.
  * Build tolerance for dissonance in conducting interdisciplinary study and research.
  * Build a deeper understanding of diversity, inclusion, and social justice embedded in the context of interdisciplinary social problems. 
  * Analyze and apply perspectives of multiple disciplines to shape your understanding of complex social problems and social justice.
  * Critically examine, interpret, and explain the multiple perspectives from disciplines of social science that apply to complex social problems and creative policy solutions/resources.
  * Practice collaborative, interdisciplinary approaches to problem identification and disciplinary integration.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Week |  Date |  Topic and Content  
---|---|---  
1 |  09/05 |  Course Introduction and Unflattening
  * First Day of Class Attendance Questionnaire
  * Self-Introduction within the Discussion Board
  * Introduction to Interdisciplinary Studies
  * Social Problem Discussion: COVID-19
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources
2 |  09/12 |  Introduction to Interdisciplinary Studies, Literature Review Skills & Research Ethics, and Library Resources Collaboration with NCUU Library
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie
  * Social Problem Discussion: COVID-19 Vaccine, The Tuskegee Experiment, Racial Bias
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources
3 |  09/19 |  Agenda Setting and Problem Definition
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie
  * Social Problem Discussion and Case Study: Fake News, Environmental Justice, and Human Rights
  * How to do a Field Observation?
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources
4 |  09/26 |  The Interdisciplinary Cognitive Toolkit and Disciplinarities
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie 
  * Social Problem Discussion: Social Order and Equity: Police Brutality, School Violence, Racial Bias, and Human Rights
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources
5 |  10/03 |  Youth Public Participation Forum and Field Trips Collaboration with Nanyang Technological University - NTU Singapore 
  * Field Trips:
    * Department for Youth, Taipei City Government 
    * Evergreen Maritime Museum
  * Social Problem Discussion: Citizen Participation for Diversity, Inclusion, and Social Equity
6 |  10/10 |  National Holiday: Taiwan National Day – No Class.   
7 |  10/17 |  Disciplinarities and Project Preparation/Consultation
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie 
  * Peer Feedback and Feedback from Dr. WenChi Shie and Guest Lecturer: Dr. Chung-An Chen
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources
8 |  10/24 |  National Holiday: Taiwan's Retrocession Day – No Class.   
9 |  10/31 |  Introduction to Political Science & Public Administration
  * Social Problem Discussion: Collaborative Governance, Collective Action Problems, Nature and Manmade Disasters: Hurricane, Gender Inequality 
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources
10 |  11/07 |  Keynote Speech & Workshop: Introduction to Public Budgeting and Budget Simulation
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie with Guest Lecturer
  * Interactive Event: Budget Simulation
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources
11 |  11/14 |  Finding a Social Problem: Field Observation & Presentation
  * Peer Feedback and Feedback from Dr. WenChi Shie 
12 |  11/21 |  Keynote Speech & Workshop: Transitional Justice for Democracy in Southeast Asia
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie with Guest Lecturer
  * Social Problem Discussion: Transitional Justice within Democracy, Citizen Participation, Advocacy 
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources
13 |  11/28 |  SustainabilityForum and Field Trips : 
  * Field Trip: CPC Petroleum Discovery Museum
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie
  * Social Problem Discussion: ESG, Renewable Energy, Environmental Justice, and Conservation
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments and Library Resources
14 |  12/05 |  Workshop: Gender Inequality
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie with Guest Lecturer
  * Social Problem Discussion: Gender Roles and Norms, Gender Pay Gap, Sex Harassment/Assault, and/or the #MeToo Movement
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments
15 |  12/12 |  Keynote Speech & Workshop: Elevating Academic Voices: Strategies for Student Success at International Conferences
  * Lecture by Dr. WenChi Shie with Guest Lecturer
  * Group Project Consultation 
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments
16 |  12/19 |  Disciplinary Integration and Justice: Final Presentation with Q &A
  * Peer Feedback and Feedback from Dr. WenChi Shie and Guest Lecturer
  * See Moodle for Reading Assignments
17 |  12/26 |  Completion of the Designated After-Course Assignment or Work  
18 |  01/02 |  Completion of the Designated After-Course Assignment or Work  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.