國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：不動產市場計量經濟分析
#####  Course Name: Applied Econometric Analysis of Real Estate Market
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：257718001 Course No.257718001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：地政碩一、地政博一、地政碩二、地政博二 Course Department:Land Economics/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：朱芳妮 Instructor: CHU FANG-NI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四567 Session: thu14-17


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course applies statistical methods and economic theory to identify, estimate, and test economic models in the real estate market. This course covers concepts and techniques relevant to the empirical analysis of the real estate market. The emphasis of the course is on various empirical applications. Topics covered in this course include the classical single-equation regression model, multiple regression models, and models with dependent variables that are discrete or categorical in nature. In the lectures, numerous empirical examples will utilize diverse datasets and applications that emphasize real-world data and models. During classes, theory and empirical exercises are combined and practiced. Students are expected to be active and read materials in advance. We will use the SAS software program to solve the empirical exercises and assignments.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFG雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備地政學理之專業能力與國際觀
  * B. 具備實務論證與理論分析之能力
  * C. 具備領導與團隊合作之能力
  * D. 具備地政學理之專業能力與國際觀
  * E. 具備領導與團隊合作之能力
  * F. 具備實務論證與理論分析之能力
  * G. 促進地政學術國際化之能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Students will learn how to conduct econometric analysis and critique empirical studies related to the real estate market, which will give students the confidence they require to estimate and interpret their models. Upon successful completion of the course, you will have the ability to:  
1. Obtain and process real estate data.  
2. Specify a suitable economic model for real estate.  
3. Use econometric software to estimate the economic model for real estate.  
4. Evaluate the model's estimated results.  
5. Interpret estimation output and make inferences.  
6. Generate forecasts using the estimated model.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Week |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and Homework  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course Introduction |  Course requirements, Class overview, and Review of Basic Statistics |  Lecture  
2 |  Overview of Real Estate Analysis (1) |  Quantitative Approach, Model Building in Real Estate Analysis (1) |  Lecture  
3 |  Overview of Real Estate Analysis (2) |  Quantitative Approach, Model Building in Real Estate Analysis (2) |  Lecture  
4 |  Data Processing for Real Estate Analysis (1) |  Introduction of SAS software, Read and Write Data in SAS |  Lecture & Exercise  
5 |  Data Processing for Real Estate Analysis (2) |  Commonly Used Essentials in SAS (1): Basic Commands |  Lecture & Exercise  
6 |  Data Processing for Real Estate Analysis (3) |  Commonly Used Essentials in SAS (2): Conditional and Iterative Processing |  Lecture & Exercise  
7 |  Data Processing for Real Estate Analysis (4) |  Commonly Used Essentials in SAS (3): Combining Datasets |  Lecture & Exercise  
8 |  Descriptive Statistics and Hypothesis Testing for Real Estate Analysis (1) |  Basic Statistical Procedures in SAS (1): UNIVARIATE, FREQ |  Lecture & Exercise  
9 |  Descriptive Statistics and Hypothesis Testing for Real Estate Analysis (2) |  Basic Statistical Procedures in SAS (2): CORR, TTEST |  Lecture & Exercise  
10 |  Descriptive Statistics and Hypothesis Testing for Real Estate Analysis (3) |  Basic Statistical Procedures in SAS (3): GLM |  Lecture & Exercise  
11 |  Regression Analysis (1) |  Overview of Regression Analysis |  Lecture & Exercise  
12 |  Regression Analysis (2) |  Regression Analysis Using PROC REG in SAS (1) |  Lecture & Exercise  
13 |  Regression Analysis (3) |  Regression Analysis Using PROC REG in SAS (2) |  Lecture & Exercise  
14 |  Regression Analysis (4) |  Further Issues in Regression Analysis: Endogeneity (1) |  Lecture & Exercise  
15 |  Regression Analysis (5) |  Further Issues in Regression Analysis: Endogeneity (2) |  Lecture & Exercise  
16 |  Discrete Dependent Variable Models |  The Logit and Multinomial Logit Models |  Lecture & Exercise  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_80%_
####  講述 Lecture
_0%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
1. Class Participation: 20%
2. In-Class Exercises & Homework: 30%
3. Empirical Research Project (Group Report): 50%
Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools: Conditional Permitted to Use
  
Generative AI tools can only be used as auxiliary tools for data collection. The information provided by the tool should be verified for authenticity and debugged. During use, academic ethics must not be violated (for example, the information provided by the tool cannot be directly copied and pasted into reports). Students must have personal ideas, creativity, and the ability to think and judge independently.  

##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Reading materials will include:  
1. Brooks, Chris and Sotiris Tsolacos (2010), Real Estate Modelling and Forecasting. Cambridge University Press.  
2. Ajmani, Vivek B. (2011), Applied Econometrics Using the SAS System. John Wiley & Sons.  
3. Cody, Ron(2018), Learning SAS by Example: A Programmer‘s Guide, Second Edition. SAS Institute.  
4. SAS User's Guide, Programmer’s Guide, Procedures Guide, etc.  
5. Academic journal articles or seminar papers  

####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Generative AI tools can only be used as auxiliary tools for data collection. During use, academic ethics must not be violated. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
None
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
  1. Office Hours：Thursday, 17:30 - 18:30
  2. Office Location：Room 271656, 16F, South Wing, General Building of Colleges


###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
None
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
