國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：勞動經濟學（一） 
#####  Course Name: Labor Economics (I)
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：258932001 Course No.258932001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_60_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：經濟碩一、經濟博一、經濟碩二、經濟博二 Course Department:Economics/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：江豐富 Instructor: JIANG FENG-FUH 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一12C Session: mon08-10&12-13


##  課程簡介Course Description
  * **_CLASS SCHEDULE_** :


**上課時間：Monday, 9:10-12:00 a.m**.
**上課地點：社科院館, Room 209**
**＿＿＿＿＿＿＿＿**
This course is the first part of a four-course sequence in labor economics. The purpose of this course is to gain insights into _life cycle aspects_ of labor economics. We thus first review the tools for decisions made in a _dynamic framework_ , and apply them to understanding the _enhancement of earnings capacity_ within the labor market. This entails learning the basic mathematical technique of _optimal control theory_ and applying it to the allocation of resources used in the _lifetime earnings augmentation process_. After understanding this process, we shall deal with the application of this theory in explaining the _earnings distribution_ and other labor market phenomena. 
The reading list is more comprehensive than necessary for this course. Part of the readings is listed for the needs in related studies on labor Economics. Thus those readings that are not required, but that merely enhance one's knowledge of the field are not marked with an asterisk (*). Those articles denoted with an asterisk are highly recommended. The schedule and selected readings are subject to revision as the course progresses.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 經濟專業知識(Expertise in Economics)
  * B. 全球經濟脈動思維與應用分析能力(Global thinking and ability of Economic analysis)
  * C. 策略規劃與解決經濟問題能力(Strategic planning and ability to resolve economic issues)
  * D. 獨立思考與研究能力(Ability of independent thinking and research)
  * E. 國際視野與國際競爭力(International Perspective Competitiveness)
  * F. 經濟專業進階知識(Advanced Expertise in Economics)
  * G. 獨立思考與研究能力(Ability of thinking and research)
  * H. 國際競爭力(International Competitiveness)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course covers the fundamentals not only for the courses of labor economics II-IV, but also for the advanced research on the issues of modern labor market. As such, the course should be of interest to those graduate students or academics wanting to build up or expand their knowledge in labor economics and to practitioners wishing to understand both theoretical and empirical aspects in this area. The goal of this course is therefore to acquaint students with a wide range of basic but important topics in labor economics and can be briefly described as follows:
  1. Learn the basic mathematical technique of _optimal control theory_ and apply it to the _allocation of time and other resources_ used in the _life-cycle earnings capacity augmentation process_ of _human capital investment_.
  2. Learn how and why the _Mincer’s human capital earnings equation_ shapes as a _downward concave function_ in the _life cycle age-profile_ , as have been demonstrated by human capital theory.
  3. Learn the differences between _general and firm-specific trainings_ , as well as between _formal schooling and post-school investment in human capital_.
  4. Learn the _return to investment in human capital_ , _internal rate of return to education_ , and the _rate-of-return approach_.
  5. Learn how the _omission of ability variable_ from the Mincer equation (i.e., the _ability-omitted problem_) could cause the bias in the estimation of Mincer's earnings equation. Especially, we want to introduce the approach to correcting this type of bias.
  6. Introduce the _educational screening hypothesis_ with the application of interaction term to the empirical study.
  7. We want to show how Heckman to set up his 1979 t _wo-stage estimation approach_ based on the economic model of _self-selection_ that was proposed far earlier by Roy (1951). 
  8. We want to analyze the _occupational choice_ and _international migration choice_ via the _self-selection process_ as proposed by Roy (1951). 


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
週次Week | 課程主題Course Theme | 課程內容與指定閱讀Content and Reading Assignment | 教學活動與作業Activity and Homework | 學習投入時數Estimated time devoted to coursework per week  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授Lecture Hours | 課程前後Preparation Time  
1 |  ```
**I-** MOTIVATION AND OVERVIEW
```
|  ```
POLACHEK, S. (2008), “Earnings over the Lifecycle: The Mincer Earnings Function and Its Applications,” in _Foundations and Trends in Microeconomics_, 4(3): 165-272.
```
|  ```
N/A
```
|  3.0 |  1.0  
2-4 |  ```
**II-** HUMAN CAPITAL THEORY
```
|  ```
* BEN-PORATH, Y. (1967), “The Production of Human Capital and the Life Cycle of Earnings,” _Journal of Political Economy_, 75(4), 352-365.
```
|  ```
N/A
```
|  3.0 |  2.0  
5 |  ```
**III-** THE ESTIMATION OF HUMAN CAPITAL PRODUCTION FUNCTION
```
|  ```
 * 江豐富(2008), 「從勞動所得估計 台灣的人力資本生 產與投資」,〈台灣經濟預測與政策〉, 38(2), 111-140。
```
|  ```
N/A
```
|  3.0 |  2.0  
6-8 |  ```
**IV- **THE MINCER'S EARNINGS FUNCTION
```
(1) Introduction to the _Panel_(_Longitudinal_) _Data_ ; (2) The Questionnaire of the _Manpower Survey_ , The Questionnaire of the _Manpower utilization Survey_ , and the Coding Book. |  ```
* MINCER, J. (1974), _Schooling, Experience and Earnings_, New York: Columbia University Press for NBER, Chapters 1, 3, 4 and 5.
```
|  ```
N/A
```
|  3.0 |  2.0  
9  |  ```
**V-** ALTERNATIVE SPECIFICATIONS FOR THE MINCER EQUATION
```
|  ```
CHISWICK, B. (2003), “Jacob Mincer, Experience and the Distribution of Earnings,”_ Review of Economics of the Household_, 1(4), 343-361.
LEMIEUX, T. (2006), “The Mincer Equation: Thirty Years after Schooling, Experience, and Earnings,” in S. Grossbard (ed.), _Jacob Mincer: A Pioneer in Labor Economics_, NY: Springer Science, 127-145.
* ASHENFELTER, O. and A. KRUEGER (1994), "Estimates of the Economic Return to Schooling from a New Sample of Twins," American Economic Review, 84(5), 1157-1173.
* ASHENFELTER, O. and C. Rouse (1998), “Income and Ability: Evidence from a New Sample of Identical Twins,” _Quarterly Journal of Economics_, 113(1), 253-269.
```
|  ```
N/A
```
|  3.0 |  1.5  
10 |  ```
**FLEXIBLE SUPPLEMNTAL INSTRUCTION WEEK**

```
|  ```
 **Midterm ****Homework Assignment**
```
|  ```
N/A
```
|  N/A |  N/A  
11 | VI- Schooling as Human Capital or a Signal |  ```
*** KROCH, E. A. and K. SJOBLOM (1994), “Schooling as Human Capital or a Signal: Some Evidence,” _Journal of Human Resource_s, 9(1), 156-180.

```
|  N/A |  3.0  
12 |  ```
**VII-** INVESTMENT IN POST-SCHOOLING SKILLS: GENERAL vs. FIRM-SPECIFIC EXPERIENCE (TENURE)
```
|  * 江豐富（2016），「台灣現職工作期間之存續分析－兼具加速失敗時間與比例風險計量的 Weibull 分析」，〈台灣經 濟預測與政策〉，47(1)，69-106。 * ABRAHAM, K. and H. Farber (1987), "Job Duration, Seniority, and Earnings", _American Economic Review_ , 77(3), 278-297.  * HASHIMOTO, M. (1981), "Firm Specific Human Capital as a Shared Investment," American Economic Review, 71(3), 475-482. * HASHIMOTO, M. (2001), "Firm-Specific Human Capital as a Shared Investment: Reply,” American Economic Review, 91 (1), 348-49. HUTCHENS, R. (1989), "Seniority, Wages and Productivity: A Turbulent Decade," _Journal of Economic Perspectives_ , 3(4), 49-64. |  ```
N/A
```
|  3.0 |  2.0  
13-14 |  ```
**VIII-** SELF-SELECTION, LATENT DECISION EQUATION, SAMPLE SELECTION BIAS, INVERSE-MILLS'S RATIO and THE ESTIMATION OF MINCER'S EARNINGS EQUATION

```
|  ```
* 江豐富（2020），「臺灣就業和非就業之多元選擇、工資式的一般化兩階段估計、與樣本選擇偏誤成因」，〈台灣經濟預測與政策〉，50 (2)，45-95。
江豐富 (2018)，「台灣各就業與非就業部門之多元 LOGIT分析 – 各就業部門工資式之選擇偏誤」，IEAS Working Paper, No. 18-A004，中央研究院經濟研究所。
* 江豐富（2011），「失業和非典型就業的人口組成與工資率分析」，〈台灣經濟預測與政策〉，42(1)，75-118。
* 江豐富（2006），「外勞引進對本國勞工失業、職業選擇及薪資之影響」，〈台灣經濟預測與政策〉，37(1)，69-111。
* Heckman, J, (1979), “Sample Selection Bias as a Specification Error,” _Econometrica_, 47(1), 153-61.

```
|  ```
RUN THE REGRESSION 
```
|  3.03.0 |  2.0  
15-16 | **IX-** OCCUPATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL MIGRATION CHOICES |  ```
* Roy, A. D. (1951), “Some Thoughts on the Distribution of Earnings,” _Oxford Economic Papers_, 3(2), 135-146.
```
B. Honoré (1990), “The Empirical Content of the Roy Model,” _Econometrica_ , 58(5), 1121-1149. * WILLIS, R. and S. Rosen (1979), "Education and Self-Selection," _Journal of Political Economy_ , 87(5-2), S7-S36. | N/A | 3.0 | 2.0  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_80%_
####  講述 Lecture
_0%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_10%_
####  其他： Others: Occasional homework 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Two periodic comprehensive homeworks, MIDTERMS I (40%) and II (40%), are required, the problem sets of which are drawn from the lecture notes of the class before the midterm as scheduled by school. 
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
<參考書目>  
Students without prior experience in an undergraduate course in labor economics are advised to refer to the relevant sections of an advanced undergraduate textbook like:
1- Borjas, G. (2016), Labor Economics, 7th ed., NewYork: Mcgraw-HillEducaton. (華泰文化, 劉朝棟先生, Email: sales1@hwatai.com.tw, Cell: 0935-286-372.)
2- Ehrenberg, R. and R. Smith, Modern Labor Economics: Theory and Public Policy, various editions, Glenview, IL: Scott, Foresman and Co. 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Students who have questions to discuss with me are strongly advised to discuss with me directly in the class, during the class break or after the class. 
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
N/A
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
