國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：語言、文化與數位媒體
#####  Course Name: Language, Culture and Digital Media
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：259693001 Course No.259693001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：民族碩一 Course Department:Ethnology/M/1 
  * 授課老師：劉子愷 Instructor: LIU TZU KAI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12 


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course looks at digital media through the lens of culture and language and follows sociolinguist and linguistic anthropological frameworks to unpack the meanings of cultural and linguistic practices of digital media in Asian and non-Asian contexts. It also provides interdisciplinary approaches to the topics of intercultural communication, digital discourse and translanguaging from the disciplines of communication, anthropology and linguistics. Digital media comprises both the internet and mobile mass communication. Its content presented in various styles and genres (written, oral and visual) or in culturally-specific repertoires can be transmitted over the internet or social media networks. This course, in particular, examines the impacts of the internet, smartphone, website and social media on interpersonal, intercultural and multilingual communication and networks. 
This course will first discuss the sociolinguistic study of language and media and then explain the anthropological study of digital ethnography and the communication study of digital media. One prioritizes the significance of linguistic practices with fewer interests in considering intercultural contexts; the other looks at the role of culture(s) in meaning-(re)making and identity construction but normally having very-limited analysis on language use. Combining these approaches is meaningful in that it opens a dynamic space for us to foreground and better understand the divergent meanings of digital media practices which are highly influenced by multilingual, multiethnic and intercultural dynamics. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 民族學與人類學專業知識與獨立研究能力
  * B. 獨立思考、批判論證與創新之能力
  * C. 分析問題、掌握議題和解決之能力
  * D. 學術對話與發表研究成果之能力
  * E. 注重專業價值、多元文化與學術倫理


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  * Critically review and discuss the trends of “digital media” from the views of language and culture.


  * Examine extant literature on the topics of language variation, multilingual and multimodal communication, interactivity, online social movement and online civic movement; and integrate sociolinguistic and anthropological approaches into the analysis of cultural politics of digital media practices, online and offline.


  * Apply above intellectual concepts and theoretical frameworks to their own experiences of and observations on digital media practices.


  * Enhance students’ awareness of cultural diversity, language variation and social inequality in digital media practices.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
週次 |  每週規劃授課進度 Topic |  授課內容 Reading Assignment |  Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---  
1  
(09/04) |  Looking at Digital Media through the Lens of Language and Culture |  Introduction |  In-class hours: 3 Outside-of-class hours: 3   
2 (09/11) |  Language, Digital Ethnography and New Media |  Rampton, Ben, Janet Maybin and Celia Roberts 2015 Theory and Method in Linguistic Ethnography. In Linguistic Ethnography: Interdisciplinary Explorations. Julia Snell, Sara Shaw and Fiona Copland, eds. Pp. 14- 50. New York: Palgrave MacMillan. Barton, David and Carmen Lee 2013 Language Online: Investigating Digital Texts and Practices. London: Routledge. Chapter 12: Researching Language Online. De Seta, Gabriele 2020 Three Lies of Digital Ethnography. Journal of Social Research 2(1): 77-97. Yin, Yiyi and Zhouxiao Xie 2024 Playing Platformized Language Games: Social Media Logic and the Mutation of Participatory Cultures in Chinese Online Fandom. New Media & Society 26(2): 619-641. |  In-class hours: 3 Outside-of-class hours: 6  
3 (09/18) |  Language Variation and Multilingualism Online  |  Varis, Piia and Mingyi Hou 2019 Digital Approaches in Linguistic Ethnography. In The Routledge Handbook of Linguistic Ethnography. Karin Tusting, eds. London: Routledge.  Hinrichs, Lars 2015 Approaches to Language Variation. In The Routledge Handbook of Language and  Digital Communication. Alexandra Georgakopoulou and Tereza Spilioti, eds., Pp.19-35.  Lee, Carmen 2017 Multilingualism Online. London: Routledge. Chapter 4: Multilingual Practices and Identities Online. McEntee-Atalianis, L., Ateek, M., & Gardner-Chloros, P.  2023 Multilingual Repertoires and Identity in Social Media: Syrian Refugees on Facebook. International Journal of Bilingualism 27(5): 731-748. |  In-class hours: 3 Outside-of-class hours: 6  
4 (09/25) |  Translanguaging and Superdiversity |  Wei, Li  2018 Translanguaging as a Practical Theory of Language. Applied Linguistics 39(1): 9-30. Varis, P. and Xuan Wang  2011 Superdiversity on the Internet: A Case from China. Diversities 13(2): 71-83. Ren, Wei and Yaping Guo  2024 Translanguaging in Self-Praise on Chinese Social Media. Applied Linguistics Review 15(1): 355-376. |  In-class hours: 3 Outside-of-class hours: 6  
5 (10/02) |  Multimodal Communication, Social Media and the Visual |  Zappavigna, Michele  2016 Social Media Photography: Construing Subjectivity in Instagram Images. Visual Communication 15(3): 271-292. Nakassis, C.V.  2023 A Linguistic Anthropology of Images. Annual Review of Anthropology 52(1): 73-91. Vaisman, Carmel L. 2016 Pretty in Pink vs. Pretty in Black: Blogs as Gendered Avatars. Visual Communication, 15(3): 293-315. |  In-class hours: 3 Outside-of-class hours: 6  
6 (10/09) |  Multimodal Communication and Semiotics |  Jewitt, Carey and Henriksen, Berit 2016 Social Semiotic Multimodality. In Handbuch Sprache im multimodalen Kontext. Nina-Maria Klug and Hartmut Stöckl, eds. Pp.145-164. Berlin: De Gruyter. Jovanovic, D., & Van Leeuwen, T.  2018 Multimodal Dialogue on Social Media. Social Semiotics 28(5): 683-699. Ledin, Per and David Machin  2018 Doing Critical Discourse Studies with Multimodality: From Metafunctions to Materiality. Critical Discourse Studies 16(5): 497-513. |  In-class hours: 3 Outside-of-class hours: 6  
7 (10/16) |  Off-campus visits |  Tour to the media company and the museum in Taipei  
8 (10/23) |  Language, Memes and Emoji |  Wiggins, Bradley E.  2019 The Discursive Power of Memes in Digital Culture: Ideology, Semiotics, and Intertextuality. London: Routledge. Chapter 2: The Discursive Power of Memes in Digital Culture. Konrad, Artie, Susan C Herring, David Choi  2020 Sticker and Emoji Use in Facebook Messenger: Implications for Graphicon Change. Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication 25(3): 217-235. Dickinson, Jennifer  2020 Emoji and Emoji Language. The International Encyclopedia of Linguistic Anthropology https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118786093.iela0442 |  In-class hours: 3 Outside-of-class hours: 6  
9 (10/30) |  Hate Speech and Online Communication |  Wilson, Richard Ashby  2019 The Digital Ethnography of Law: Studying Online Hate Speech Online and Offline. Journal of Legal Anthropology 3(1): 1-20. Pohjonen, Matti  2019 A Comparative Approach to Social Media Extreme Speech: Online Hate Speech as Media Commentary. International Journal of Communication 13: 3088-3103. Aziz, A.  2024 Rohingya Diaspora Online: Mapping the Spaces of Visibility, Resistance and Transnational Identity on Social Media. New Media & Society 26(9): 5219-5239. |  In-class hours: 3 Outside-of-class hours: 6  
10 (11/06) |  Community of Practice, Online Community and Civic Participation |  Angouri, Jo  2015 Online Communities and Communities of Practices. In The Routledge Handbook of Language and Digital Communication. Alexandra Georgakopoulou and Tereza Spilioti, eds., Pp. 323-338. London: Routledge. Wu, Xiaoping  2018 Discursive Strategies of Resistance on Weibo: A Case Study of the 2015 Tianjin Explosions in China. Discourse, Context & Media 26: 64-73. Milani, Tommaso M.  2013 Are ‘Queers’ Really ‘Queer’? Language, Identity and Same-sex Desire in a South African Online Community. Discourse and Society 24(5): 615-633. |  In-class hours: 3 Outside-of-class hours: 6  
11 (11/13) |  Language Ideology, Digital Discourse, COVID-19 Pandemics and ChatGPT |  Subtirelu, Nicholas Close  2017 Raciolinguistic Ideology and Spanish-English Bilingualism on the US Labor Market: An Analysis of Online Job Advertisements. Language in Society 46(4): 477-505. Zhu, Hongqiang  2020 Countering COVID-19-related Anti-Chinese Racism with Translanguaged Swearing on Social Media. Multilingua 39(5): 607-616. Spilioti, Tereza 2015 Digital Discourse: A Critical Perspective. In The Routledge Handbook of Language and Digital Communication. Alexandra Georgakopoulou and Tereza  Spilioti, eds., Pp. 133-148. London: Routledge. McNally, K., Wright, K., Goldkind, L., Kattari, S. K., & Victor, B. G.  2024 Disability Expertise and Large Language Models: A Qualitative Study of Autistic TikTok Creators’ Use of ChatGPT. Social Media + Society, 10(3). https://doi.org/10.1177/20563051241279549 |  In-class hours: 3 Outside-of-class hours: 6  
12 (11/20) |  Disability, Digital Communication and Digital Media |  Ginsburg, Faye 2012 Disability in the Digital Age. In  Digital Anthropology. Heather A. Horst and Daniel Miller, eds. Routledge. Lin, Z., & Yang, L.  2021 Smartphones as actors: A new digital disability care actor-network in China. International Journal of Cultural Studies 24(4): 673-688. Kaur, H., & Saukko, P.  2022 Social access: role of digital media in social relations of young people with disabilities. New Media & Society 24(2): 420-436. Jaraisy, Marah, and Rose Stamp 2024 Word of Mouth: Mouthing Patterns in a Bimodal Multilingual Deaf Community. Language in Society 1-26. |   
13 (11/27) |  Ethnographic Case: Language Revitalization and Postcoloniality |  Makananise, Fulufhelo Oscar, eds. 2024 Decolonising Digital Media and Indigenisation of Participatory Epistemologies: Languages of the Global South. Chapter 1: Decolonial Thinking of Digital Media Inequalities and Indigenous Language Marginalisation of the Global South from the South African Context (by Fulufhelo Oscar Makananise) Chapter 4: Incorporating Indigenous Language in TikTok Content Creation: Influence of IsiZulu in Content Creation (by Khatija BiBi Khan) Chapter 6: "Tlen quihtoa moyollo?" – "What does your heart tell you?": Language Revitalisation and Postcolonial Cultural Education among the #Nahuatl Language Teaching Community on TikTok (by Amanda R. Ruschak) Chapter 9: Revitalising Endangered Languages through Social Media: A Case Study of Olunyore Language Preservation through Facebook in Kenya (by Jackline U. Lidubwi and John O. Ndavula) |  In-class hours: 3 Outside-of-class hours: 6  
14 (12/04) |  Ethnographic Case:  Work, Gender and the Visual |  Lukács, Gabriella 2020 Invisibility by Design: Women and Labor in Japan's Digital Economy. Durham: Duke University Press. Introduction Chapter 1 Chapter 2 Chapter 3 |  In-class hours: 3 Outside-of-class hours: 6  
15 (12/11) |  Ethnographic Case: Language, Youth and Online Abuse |  Ringrose, Jessica and Kaitlyn Regehr 2025 Teens, Social Media, and Image Based Abuse. London: Palgrave Macmillan Cham. |  In-class hours: 3 Outside-of-class hours: 6  
16 (12/18) |  Final Project Presentation |  |  In-class hours: 3  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
_Class Attendance/Participation_ 14% (1pts per week)
_Weekly Discussion Questions_ 11% (1pts per week)
_Written Assignment_ : My Experiences of Linguistic and Cultural Landscape 10%
_In-class Individual Presentation:_
My Experiences of Linguistic and Cultural Landscape 6%
_In-class Individual Presentation on Articles (3 times x 8%): 24%_
_In-class Group Activity:_ Intercultural Communication 10%
_Final Paper_ (personal written paper) 25% 
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**[Required Text****]** 指定書目
Ginsburg, Faye D., Lila Abu-Lughod and Brian Larkin, eds. 
2002 Media Worlds: Anthropology on New Terrain. Berkeley: University of California 
Press. 
2008 《媒體世界：人類學的新領域》。臺北：巨流圖書。
Johnson, Sally and Astrid Esslin, eds. 
2007 Language in the Media. New York: Continuum.
Georgakopoulou, Alexandra and Tereza Spilioti, eds.
2015 The Routledge Handbook of Language and Digital Communication. London:
Routledge.
Barton, David and Carmen Lee
2013 Language Online: Investigating Digital Texts and Practices. London: Routledge.
Dovchin, Sender, Shaila Sultana and Alastair Pennycook
2018 Popular Culture, Voice and Linguistic Diversity: Young Adults On- and Offline. 
Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Chandler, Daniel
2017 Semiotics: The Basics. London: Routledge.
Tusting, Karin, ed.
2020 The Routledge Handbook of Linguistic Ethnography. London: Routledge.
Sinatora, Francesco L.
2019 Language, Identity, and Syrian Political Activism on Social Media. London: 
Routledge.
Bell, Joshua A. and Joel C. Kuipers, eds.
2018 Linguistic and Material Intimacies of Cell Phones. London: Routledge
Seargeant, Philip and Caroline Tagg
2013 The Language of Social Media: Identity and Community on the Internet. 
Hampshire: Palgrave Macmillan.
Lukcas, Gabriella
2020 Invisibility by Design: Women and Labor in Japan’s Digital Economy. Durham: 
Duke University Press.
**[Re****commended****Texts****] 推薦書目**
Tannen, Deborah and Anna Marie Trester, eds.
2013 Discourse 2.0: Language and New Media. Washington, DC: Georgetown 
University Press.
Zappavigna, Michele
2012 Discourse of Twitter and Social Media: How We Use Language to Create
Affiliation on the Web. London: Continuum.
Wang, Xinyuan
2016 Social Media in Industrial China. London: UCL Press.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Wednesday 3-5 pm
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
