國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：社會發展理論
#####  Course Name: Development Studies: Sociology Approach
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：261102001 Course No.261102001


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_12_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國發碩一、國發碩二 Course Department:Graduate Institute of Development Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：何浩慈 Instructor: HO HAO-TZU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三567 Session: wed14-17


##  課程簡介Course Description
In the past few decades, the studies on social development were highly related to modernisation theory, dependency theory, and world system theory. One of the major research topics was especially related to the issue of economic development in developing countries. However, the current concern of development studies is no longer focused merely on the material abundance of society. Instead, the subject has expanded to broader areas such as human well-being and environmental sustainability. Present-day research on this matter requires trans-disciplinary and solid knowledge to understand the development of human society and culture, both locally and globally. To respond to the above needs, this course integrates the academic legacy of sociology and anthropology, guiding students to travel from reading classics to facing contemporary issues to learn the technique of applying theory to policy. 
This course is designed to introduce major topics of social development. Since global interaction has become a daily routine, this course will be based on a viewpoint of cross-cultural understanding to enhance students’ ability to deal with people and information from diverse backgrounds. We will read materials regarding the following issues: reflection of development theory; political and cultural dimension on economic development; social capital and development; social economy and social innovation; social inclusion and exclusion; urban and regional development; inequality; social protest and new development models. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備發展理論基礎與科際整合架構的思考與研究之知能
  * B. 具備國家發展理論與政策實務分析的判斷與批判之能力
  * C. 具有人文關懷與多元價值涵養的解決問題與創新之能力
  * D. 具備國際視野與協調合作思維的溝通與行動之能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course contains lectures, student presentations, and in-class discussions. These activities are based on reading materials and lecture slides. Apart from lectures, students are expected to summarise readings on the topic(s) they sign-up for at the beginning of the term and present their thoughts (at least 1 presentation, depending on the class size). Students are advised to read before weekly sessions and bring their reflections and questions to in-class discussions. Finally, this course aims to help students think clearly and express their ideas in the term paper about what can and cannot reasonably be said about causal relations within the global political economy’s realms. Assessment will emphasise the importance of analytical perspectives on key social science issues, theories, and policies.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Week 1 Introduction & Logistics
_教師出國開研討會，不上課。第二、三、四週課程將各延長一小時，_ _6_ _點下課。_
Week 2 Development Studies: Scope & Critical Perspectives
***** **本週補第一週課程，上課時間延長至****6****點。**
_Reference Readings_
  1. 王振寰、簡旭伸。2016。〈發展研究概述：理論發展與研究方法〉，《發展研究與當代台灣社會》。台北：巨流。
  2. Reinert, E. 2007. Introduction. _How Rich Countries Got Rich and Why Poor Countries Stay Poor_. London: Constable. 
  3. Sen, Amartya, 1999. Introduction. Development as Freedom. NY: Alfred A. Knopf.
  4. Giddens, A. 1971. Introduction. _Capitalism and Modern Social Theory._ Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 
  5. Lewis, D. 2005. Anthropology and development: the uneasy relationship. In A Handbook of Economic Anthropology. Carrier, James G. ed. Pp: 472-486. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar.
  6. Escobar, A. (1997), Anthropology and development. International Social Science Journal, 49: 497-515.


Week 3 Theoretical Foundation 1: Durkheim, Religion & Structural Functionalism
***** **本週補第一週課程，上課時間延長至****6****點。**
_Required Readings_
  1. Durkheim, E 1915 _The Elementary Forms of the Religious Life_ , Introduction.
  2. _____ _The division of labour in society_(L. Coser translation), chapters. 1 and 3.
  3. Fortes, M 1970 “Pietas and ancestor worship” in _Time and social structure,_ London: Athlone Press.
  4. Giddens, A (ed) “Durkheim’s conception of sociological method” Chapter 6 of 1972 _Emile Durkheim: Selected Writings._


Week 4 Theoretical Foundation 2: Bourdieu, Structure, Conflict, Practice & Change
***** **本週補第一週課程，上課時間延長至****6****點。**
_Required Readings_
  1. Bourdieu, Pierre. 1977. Outline of a Theory of Practice. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. Ch 2: Structures and the Habitus; Ch 4: Structure, Habitus, Power: Basis for a Theory of Symbolic Power. 
  2. Barth, Fredrik 1992 “Towards greater naturalism in conceptualizing societies” in A Kuper (ed.) _Conceptualizing Society._ London: Routledge.
  3. Gluckman, Max. 1963. Introduction. _Order and rebellion in tribal Africa._ New York: Free Press of Glencoe.


Week 5 Theoretical Foundation 3: Marxism & Social Class
_Required Readings_
  1. Bloch M. 1983. Chapter 1. _Marxism and Anthropology: The History of a Relationship._ London: Routledge. 
  2. Donham, D 2006 “Epochal Structures and Historical Materialism” in H.L. Moore & T. Sanders (eds) 2006 _Anthropology in theory: Issues in epistemology._
  3. Smith, R. T. (1984). Anthropology and the Concept of Social Class. Annual Review of Anthropology, 13, 467–494.


Week 6 Theoretical Foundation 4: Economy, Exchange, Gift & Trade
_Required Readings_
  1. Sherry, J. F. (1983). Gift Giving in Anthropological Perspective. Journal of Consumer Research, 10(2), 157–168. 
  2. Keith Hart and Horacio Ortiz. 2014. The Anthropology of Money and Finance: Between Ethnography and World History. _Annual Review of Anthropology_ , 43:1, 465-482.
  3. James, Deborah (2021) Life and debt: a view from the south. Economy and Society, 50 (1). 36 - 56.


Week 7 Theoretical Foundation 5: Weber, Social Status & Social Division
_Required Readings_
  1. Keyes, C. F. (2002). Weber and Anthropology. _Annual Review of Anthropology_ , 31, 233–255.
  2. Barth, F. “Introduction” in F. Barth (ed.) 1969 _Ethnic Groups and Boundaries: The Social Organisation of Culture Difference_. London: Allen and Unwin. pp. 9-38.
  3. Parkin, F. 2002 _Max Weber_(Key Sociologists), esp. ch.4. 


Week 8 Theoretical Foundation 6: Giddens, Capitalism, Modernity & Relations
_Required Readings_
  1. Giddens, A. 1971 Chapters 9 and 12 of Capitalism and Modern Social Theory. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
  2. Giddens, A. 1991. Modernity and Self-Identity: Self and Society in the Late Modern Age. Chapters 1, 7. Cambridge: Polity Press.
  3. Giddens, A. 1992. The Transformation of Intimacy: Sexuality, Love, and Eroticism in Modern Societies. Chapters 1, 2, 3, 4. Cambridge: Polity Press.


Week 9 Theoretical Foundation 7: Foucault & Experimentations in an Era of ‘Postconditions’ 
_Required Readings_
  1. Foucault, Michel. 2001 [1961]. Madness and Civilization: A History of Insanity in the Age of Reason. Ch 9: The Birth of the Asylum; Conclusion. London: Routledge.
  2. Clifford, James. 1988. _The Predicament of Culture: Twentieth-Century Ethnography, Literature, and Art_. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. Chapter 12, 277-346: Identity in Mashpee. 
  3. Mascia-Lees, Frances E. and Patricia Sharpe, and Colleen Ballerino Cohen. 1989. The Postmodernist Turn in Anthropology: Cautions from a Feminist Perspective. _Signs_ 15(1): 7-33.


Week 10 Issue & Policy 1: Rethinking Globalisation and Cosmopolitanism
_Required Readings_
  1. Tsing, Anna. 2000. The Global Situation. _Cultural Anthropology_ 15(3): 327-360. 
  2. Candea, Matei. 2007. Arbitrary Locations: In Defence of the Bounded Field-Site. _Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute_ 13(1): 167-184. 
  3. Werbner, Pnina. (ed.) 2008. _Anthropology and the New Cosmopolitanism: Rooted, Feminist and Vernacular Perspectives._ New York: Berg. Ch. 1.


Week 11 Issue & Policy 2: State, Markets, and Institutions
_Required Readings_
  1. Reinert, E. 2007. _How Rich Countries Got Rich and Why Poor Countries Stay Poor_. London: Constable, Chapters 2, “The Evolution of Two Different Approaches”.
  2. Smith, A. 1776. An Inquiry into the Causes of the Wealth of Nations, Chapter 2, “Of the Principle Which Gives Occasion to the Division of Labour”.
  3. Polanyi, K. 2001 [1944]. The Great Transformation: The Political and Economic Origins of Our Times (Boston: Beacon Press), Chap. 5, “Evolution of the Market Pattern” and Chap. 6, “The Self-Regulating Market and the Fictitious Commodities: Labor, Land and Money”.


Week 12 Issue & Policy 3: Colonial Legacies, Agricultural Change, and Industrialisation
_Required Readings_
  1. Mamdani, Mahmood. 2001. Beyond Settler and Native as Political Identities: Overcoming the Political Legacy of Colonialism. _Comparative Studies in Society and History_ , 43:651-664.
  2. Knight, John, Li Shi and Lina Song. 2006. The Rural-Urban Divide and the Evolution of Political Economy in China. In _Human Development in the Era of Globalization: Essays in Honor of Keith B. Griffin._ Ed. James K. Boyce, Stephen Cullenberg, Prasanta K. Pattanaik and Robert Pollin. Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
  3. Tam, M., & Evans, G. (1997). Introduction. Hong Kong: the anthropology of a Chinese metropolis. Richmond: Curzon.


Week 13 Issue & Policy 4: Social Exclusion & Social Innovation
  1. Room, G. J., 1999, “Social exclusion, solidarity and the challenge of globalization,” International Journal of Social Welfare 8 (3), 166–174.
  2. Goodstadt, L. F. (2014). Introduction. Poverty in the midst of affluence: how Hong Kong mismanaged its prosperity. Hong Kong: Hong Kong University Press.
  3. Storper, M. 2005, “Society, community, and economic development,” Studies in Comparative International Development, 39:4, 30-57. 


Week 14 Issue & Policy 5: Sustainable Development & Urban Bias
_Required Readings_
  1. Bezemer, D., & Headey, D. 2008. Agriculture, Development and Urban Bias. _World Development_ 36, 8: 1342-1364.
  2. Homer, Dixon. 1999. _Environment, scarcity and violence_. Princeton University Press. Chapter 3: Two Centuries of Debate. Pp.28-44.
  3. Beck, U. 1992. Introduction. Risk Society: Towards a New Modernity. London: Sage.
  4. 何浩慈，2023。〈香港以糧為本「自然」識覺：與Tim Ingold對話都市人類學〉，《臺灣人類學刊》Vol.21, No.1, pp.131-166。


Week 15 Issue & Policy 6: Regional Development, Civil Society, and Welfare State
_Required Readings_
  1. Haug, Sebastian, Jacqueline Braveboy-Wagner, and Günther Maihold. 2021. “The ‘Global South’ in the Study of World Politics: Examining a Meta Category.” Third World Quarterly 42 (9): 1923–44.
  2. Didvalis, Linas. 2018. Civil Society in East Asia: Recent Topics and Trends. in Civil Society in East Asian Countries, 9-16, Kaunas: Vytautas Magnus University. [ISBN 978-609-467-325-2].
  3. GARLAND, DAVID. “The Welfare State: A Fundamental Dimension of Modern Government.” European Journal of Sociology / Archives Européennes de Sociologie / Europäisches Archiv Für Soziologie 55, no. 3 (2014): 327–64.


Week 16 Completing term paper. No class. 
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  1. _Attendance & participation in discussion (2_ _0_ _%)_
  2. _Required reading oral presentation (20%)_
  3. _Reading notes (30%)_
  4. _Term paper (30%)_
    1. _Written work (20%)_
  5.     1. _Oral presentation (10%)_


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  1. 簡旭伸、王振寰。2016。《發展研究與當代台灣社會》。台北：巨流。
  2. Aron, R. 1968 _Main Currents in Sociological Thought._ Harmondsworth: Penguin.
  3. Giddens, A. 1971 _Capitalism and Modern Social Theory._ Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
  4. Kuper, Adam 1988 _The invention of primitive society: transformations of an illusion._ London, Routledge.
  5. Moore, H.L. & T. Sanders (eds.) 2006 _Anthropology in Theory: Issues in Epistemology._
  6. Bendix, R. 1960 _Max Weber: An Intellectual Portrait._ London: Heinemann.
  7. Camic, C., P.S. Gorski and D.M. Trubek, (eds.) 2005 _Max Weber’s ‘Economy and Society’._ Stanford: Stanford University Press.
  8. Elster, J 1986 _Karl Marx: A Reader_. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
  9. Giddens, A. _Emile Durkheim: Selected writings._ Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
  10. Sen, Amartya,1999, Development as Freedom. NY: Alfred A. Knopf.
  11. Gellner, Ernest. 2005. Nations and Nationalism (2nd ed.) (Oxford: Blackwell)
  12. Chang, H-J (ed.) 2003. _Rethinking Development Economics_ London: Anthem.
  13. Reinert, Erik, 2007. _How Rich Countries Got Rich and Why Poor Countries Stay Poor_. London: Constable, reprinted 2010**.**
  14. Polanyi, K. 2001 [1944]. The Great Transformation: The Political and Economic Origins of Our Times (Boston: Beacon Press).
  15. Vertovec, S. & Cohen, R. 2002. Conceiving Cosmopolitanism: Theory, Context, and Practice.Oxford: Oxford University Press.
  16. Beck, U. 1992. Risk Society: Towards a New Modernity. London: Sage.
  17. Chari, S. and Corbridge, S. (eds.) 2008. _The Development Reader_.
  18. Tim Forsyth (ed). 2005. _Encyclopedia of International Development_. London: Routledge.
  19. Werbner, Pnina. (ed.) 2008. _Anthropology and the New Cosmopolitanism: Rooted, Feminist and Vernacular Perspectives._ New York: Berg.
  20. Weller, Robert P. (ed.) 2005. _Civil Life, Globalization, and Political Change in Asia._ London: Routledge.


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:僅限用於資料蒐集與觀點討論。 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
