國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：永續發展
#####  Course Name: Sustainable Development
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：261103001 Course No.261103001


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_12_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國發碩一、國發碩二 Course Department:Graduate Institute of Development Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：林義鈞 Instructor: LIN YI-CHUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一567 Session: mon14-17


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course has a concern with the concept of _sustainable development_ , more than thirsty years on from the influential Brundtland Report (1987), and its applications for the conduct of public policy. By reflecting within the discussions on what sustainable development is, why it is advocated, who is responsible for it, how it can be achieved, and how it can be measure, the aim of this course is to provide ample demonstration of these. Many of these conversations stem from a shared concern about the development paths that both developed and developing countries are on. As the world’s development paths indeed reflect complex interactions between different intellectual disciplines and policy foci, mapping out the structure of this course is of multidiscipline and interdiscipline, mostly among Political Science, Economics, and Sociology. This course, therefore, attempts to offer a comprehensive, but accessible, portrait of the sustainable development literature, in which students from different disciplinary and work backgrounds can find of interest.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備發展理論基礎與科際整合架構的思考與研究之知能
  * B. 具備國家發展理論與政策實務分析的判斷與批判之能力
  * C. 具有人文關懷與多元價值涵養的解決問題與創新之能力
  * D. 具備國際視野與協調合作思維的溝通與行動之能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
After successful completing this course, students should be able: (1) to provide building-blocks of both knowledge and theory about the _challenges_ of applying sustainable development into realty, especially the governments, market/business, and social systems, in/by which the challenges are set; (2) to learn how to interpret sustainable development as _opportunities_ in different backgrounds – whether nationality, ethnicity, gender, education, work, age, culture, or communication. That is, to learn how the same concept may have different meanings in sustainable development, and to learn how to find the clues needed for practical translation between these differences for better environmental/social/economic governance.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week****1****–****9/01****– Class Topic I: Course Introduction: discussion of course aims and content**
**Class Topic II:****Moodle Introduction**
**Class Topic III: Assignment of weekly reading rotation**
**Week****2****–****9/08****– Class Topic: Development and Environment in/for Sustainable Development**
_Required reading:_
O’Brien, Robert, and Marc Williams, _Global Political Economy: Evolution and Dynamics_ (New York, NY: Palgrave Macmillan, 2007, 2nd Edition), Chapters 10, 292-331. （）
Stevis, Dimitris, “The Trajectory of the Study of International Environmental Politics,” in Michele M. Betsill, Kathryn Hochstetler, and Dimitris Stevis, eds., _International Environmental Politics_ (New York, NY: Palgrave Macmillan, 2006), 13-53. （）
Lin, Scott Y., “An Asian Way to Safeguard Food Security—Transnational Farmland Investment,” _Asian Perspective_ , Vol. 41, No. 3 (September 2017), 481-518.（）
**Week****3****–****9/15****– Class Topic: General Concept,****S****tandards, and Evolution of Sustainable Development****(_for MDGs_)**
_Required reading:_
Strange, Tracey, and Anne Bayley, _Sustainable Development: Linking Economy, Society, Environment_ (Paris: OECD Publishing, 2008), Chapters 2-5, 20-97.（）
Pezzoli, Keith, “Sustainable Development: A Transdisciplinary Overview of the Literature,” _Journal of Environmental Planning and Management_ , Vol. 40, No. 5 (September 1997), 549-574. （）
Halkos, George, and Stylianos Nomikos, “Corporate Social Responsibility: Trends in Global Reporting Initiative Standards,” _Economic Analysis and Policy_ , No. 69 (2021), 106-117. （）
**Week****4****–****9/22****– Class Topic:****Sustainability and Social Sciences**
_Required reading:_
Becker, Egon, Thomas Jahn, and Immanuel Stiess, “Exploring Uncommon Ground: Sustainability and the Social Sciences,” in Egon Becker and Thomas Jahn, eds., _Sustainability and The Social Sciences: A Cross-Disciplinary Approach to Integrating Environmental Considerations into Theoretical Reorientation_ (London: Zed Books, 1999), 1-22. （）
Sachs, Ignacy, “Social Sustainability and Whole Development: Exploring the Dimensions of Sustainable Development,” in Egon Becker and Thomas Jahn, eds., _Sustainability and The Social Sciences: A Cross-Disciplinary Approach to Integrating Environmental Considerations into Theoretical Reorientation_ (London: Zed Books, 1999), 23-36.（）
Reboratti, Carlos E., “Territory, Scale and Sustainable Development,” in Egon Becker and Thomas Jahn, eds., _Sustainability and The Social Sciences: A Cross-Disciplinary Approach to Integrating Environmental Considerations into Theoretical Reorientation_ (London: Zed Books, 1999), 207-222. （）
_EDFR_ _演講_
Speaker / 講座老師：賴燕珍（EDFR法國電力再生能源資深經理）
Time / 講座時間：2025年9月22日（Mon.）下午0210p-0300p
Venue / 地點：政大綜合大樓270722R
Topic / 題目：EDFR法國電力再生能源與台灣風電發展
**Week****5****–****9/29****– Class Topic: No Class**(Teachers’ Day)
**Week****6****–****10/06****– Class Topic: No Class** (Moon Festival)
**Week****7****–****10/13****– Class Topic:****Sustainability and Environment—Environmental Governance**
_Required reading:_
Ostrom, Elinor, Governing the Commons: The Evolution of Institutions for Collective Action (NY: Cambridge University Press, 1999), Chapters 1 & 2, 1-28 & 29-57. （Ch1 （）； + Ch2 （） ）
Beck, Ulrich, “Reflexive Governance: Politics in the Global Risk Society,” in Jan-Peter Voß, Dierk Bauknecht, and René Kemp eds., Reflexive Governance for Sustainable Development (Northampton, MA: Edward Elgar, 2006), 31-56.（）
**Week****8****–****10/20****– Class Topic:****Sustainability and Environment (_for SDGs_)—Challenges and Goals****(1)**
_Required reading:_
Sachs, Jeffrey D., The Age of Sustainable Development (NY: Columbia University Press, 2015), 1-250. （有中文版本，**永續發展新紀元** ，16-230）.（Ch1-2（）； Ch3-5（）；Ch6-7（） ）
Optional reading:
Sachs, Jeffrey D., _The Age of Sustainable Development_(NY: Columbia University Press, 2015), 251-511. （有中文版本，**永續發展新紀元** ， 231-464）. （Ch8-10（）； Ch11-12（）；Ch13-14（） ）
**Week****9****–****10/27****– Class Topic:****No Class**(Midterm Exam)
**One****-page introduction statement of your term paper project**
Submission of your term paper proposal due by 11:59PM of Friday, 10/24, 2025.
**Week****10****–****11/03****– Class Topic:****Sustainability and Environment—Climate Change**
_Required reading:_
Kinley, Richard, “Climate Change after Paris: from Turning Point to Transformation,” Climate Policy, Vol. 17, Issue 1 (February 2016), 9-15. （）
Höhne, Niklas, Takeshi Kuramochi, Carsten Warnecke, Frauke Röser, Hanna Fekete, Markus Hagemann, Thomas Day, Ritika Tewari, Marie Kurdziel, Sebastian Sterl, and Sofia Gonzales, “The Paris Agreement: Resolving the Inconsistency between Global Goals and National Contributions,” Climate Policy, Vol. 17, Issue 1 (February 2016), 16-32. （）
Morgan, Jamie, “Paris COP 21: Power that Speaks the Truth?” Globalizations, Vol. 19, Issue 6 (December 2016), 943-951. （）
Lomborg, Bjorn, “Impact of Current Climate Proposals,” Global Policy, Vol. 7, Issue 1 (February 2016), 109-118. （）
_台電參訪_
協和發電廠+汐止超高壓變電所
時間：2025年11月03日（一）12:00政大後山蔣公銅像-16:40政大
地點：政大出發，政大結束（台電專車接送）
參與老師：政大國發所林義鈞教授
參與學生：？位政大學生+？位政大老師
1200 政大後山的蔣公銅像集合
1230 政大後山的蔣公銅像集合與出發
1230-1310 前往基隆
1310-1440 參觀協和電廠
1440-1510 前往汐止
1510-1600 參觀汐止超高壓變電所
1600-1640 賦歸
1640 抵達政大
**Week 11****–****11/10****– Class Topic:****Sustainability and Economics—Consumption**
_Required reading:_
Princen, Thomas, “The Shading and Distancing of Commerce: When Internalization is not Enough,” Ecological Economics, Vol. 20, No. 3 (March 1997), 235-253.（）
Princen, Thomas, “Consumption and Its Externalities: Where Economy Meets Ecology,” Global Environmental Politics, Vol. 1, No. 3 (August 2001), 11-30. （）
Conca, Ken, “Consumption and Environment in a Global Economy,” Global Environmental Politics, Vol. 1, No. 3 (August 2001), 53-71. （）
**Week****12****–****11/17****– Class Topic:****Sustainability and Economics—Eco-Development**
_Required reading:_
Redclift, Michael, “Sustainable Development (1987–2005): An Oxymoron Comes of Age,” _Sustainable Development_ , Vol. 13, No. 4 (October 2005), 212-227.（）
Dingwerth, Klaus, and Margot Eichinger, “Tamed Transparency: How Information Disclosure under the Global Reporting Initiative Fails to Empower,” _Global Environmental Politics_ , Vol. 10, No. 3 (August 2010), 74-96（）
MacLeod, Michael, and Jacob Park, “Financial Activism and Global Climate Change: The Rise of Investor-Driven Governance Networks,” _Global Environmental Politics_ , Vol. 11, No. 2 (May 2011), 54-74（）
**Week 13****–****11/24****– Class Topic:****Sustainability and Politics—Domestic Politics**
_Required reading:_
Lin, Scott Y., “Localization of the Corporate Food Regime and the Food Sovereignty Movement: Taiwan’s Food Sovereignty Movement under ‘Third Regionalism’,” _Food, Culture & Society_, Vol. 26, No. 3 (2023), 621-642. （）
Kemp, Rene, Saeed Parto, and Robert B. Gibson, “Governance for Sustainable Development: Moving from Theory to Practice,” _International Journal of Sustainable Development_ , Vol. 8, No. 1/2 (2005), 12-30. （）
While, Aidan, Andrew E. G. Jonas, and David Gibbs, “From Sustainable Development to Carbon Control: Eco-state Restructuring and the Politics of Urban and Regional Development,” _Transactions of the Institute of British Geographers_ , Vol. 35, No. 1 (January 2010), 76-93. （）
_SRE +__工研院演講_
Speaker / 講座老師：林琮盛（SRE風睿能源公共事務協理）
楊哲一（工業技術研究院綠能與環境研究所研究員）
Time / 講座時間：2025年11月24日（Mon.）下午0210p-0300p
Venue / 地點：政大綜合大樓270722R
Topic / 題目：SRE、工業技術研究院與台灣風電發展
**Week 1****4****–****12/01****– Class Topic:****Sustainability and Politics—Global Governance**
_Required reading:_
Biermann, Frank, “Global Governance and the Environment,” in Michele M. Betsill, Kathryn Hochstetler, and Dimitris Stevis, eds.,_International Environmental Politics_ (New York: Palgrave Macmillan Ltd., 2006), 237-261. （）
Vogler, John, “The International Politics of Sustainable Development,” in Giles Atkinson, Simon Dietz, and Eric Neumayer Cheltenham eds., _Handbook of Sustainable Development_ (Northampton, MA: Edward Elgar, 2007), 430-446. （）
Lin, Scott Y., “Transnational Farmland Acquisition in the International Political Economy: Towards a Better Understanding of Theory, Approach, and Governance,” _Global Change, Peace & Security_, Vol. 29, No. 3 (October 2017), 273-292.（）
**Week****15****–****12/08****– Class Topic:****Sustainability and Practices—Green Regionalism**
_Required reading:_
Hancock, Kathleen J., “Introduction to the Special Issue on Energy Regionalism,” _Review of Policy Research_ , Vol. 41, No. 2 (March 2024), 282-289. （）
Herman, Lior, Jonathan Ariel, “Comparative Energy Regionalism: North America and the European Energy Community,” _Review of Policy Research_ , Vol. 41, No. 2 (March 2024), 382-404. （）
Nguitragool, Paruedee, and Helena Varkkey, “Chapter 27: Governing across Regions: Global Environment and Regionalism in Europe and Southeast Asia,” in Jürgen Rüland and Astrid Carrapatoso, eds., _Handbook on Global Governance and Regionalism_(Northampton, MA: Edward Elgar, 2022), 400-418. （）
**Week 1****6****–****12/15****– Class Topic: 1. Sustainable Development****Field Trip  
2. Final Exam**
  1. _Class directed to_


台灣中油石油探索館：（02）8725-9761
_Speaker:_
台灣中油長官
_Topic:_
台灣中油與ESG
_Time:_
2025年12月15日 13:15集合於政大校門口收發室
2025年12月15日 14:00-16:00參訪
_Venue:_
台北市信義區松仁路3號
_Required reading:_
https://www.cpc.com.tw/csr/Default.aspx
  1. Write your term paper carefully.


Submit your term paper due by 11:59PM of Friday, 19/12, 2025.
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_60%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_10%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Course grades will be based on six components which also are student requirements on the course:
  1. Class participation – 10%. 


This includes your attendance and participation in discussions of class readings. Students are expected to do all the required weekly readings, attend the class on time, and take an active role in discussing the readings. 
  1. Rotating chair discussions – 25%. 


While class participation is required, in a university seminar course, each graduate student is expected to be rotated as a chair for discussion of an assigned reading for 30 minutes or so. In other words, three students are appointed for every week and you will be rotated/appointed accordingly. These three discussion chairs are encouraged, not required though, to organize a panel for better discussion and comparison of the three assignments. As a discussion chair, you must read your assigned reading very carefully and give the class a constructive review of the reading. Rotation of each reading will start from Week 2. 
  1. Short critical essays – 25%. 


Students are NOT allowed to use AI writing tools. Each student in each week (except Week 1, Week 5, Week 6, Week 9, and Week 16) is required to write a short essay (in Chinese or English) based on the three weekly readings. The weekly short essays must include your critical comments on each reading in academic writing within a one-page MS Word document. These essays are due at _11:59PM of each Friday_. Essays turned in after the due time might not be counted.
  1. One term paper – 30%. 


Students are NOT allowed to use AI writing tools. Students are required to write a term paper (in Chinese or English), which should not normally exceed 14,000 words in Chinese or 7,000 words in English. The term paper should be submitted in academic writing in a MS Word document and due in week 16 (by 11:59PM of Friday, 12/19, 2025). The title for the term paper must be related to (1) the class topics of Week 2 to Week 15, given below; or (2) the topics related to ESG, CSR, or USR. The term paper must demonstrate an understanding of the sustainable development concept(s) raised in the class, adopt the theory introduced in the discussion, make reference to the readings set for the topic(s), and provide some possible solutions for better environmental/social/economic governance of your topic(s). 
  1. Term paper consultation – 5%. 


Your term paper proposal, ideally including the title, abstract, and outline within a one-page MS Word document, is scheduled to be submitted by 11:59PM of Friday, 10/24, 2025. Hereafter, you are encouraged to use my office hours for a consultation on your term paper before submitting your term paper.
  1. Gentle reminder – 5%. 


Your short critical essays, term paper, and appointed discussion notes must be uploaded to: 
Moodle ► 1141_ 261103001 _永續發展 ► 討論區.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:切勿抄襲 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
**Office** |  **綜合****270715 R**  
---|---  
**Office Hours** |  **10a-12n / Tuesdays** **also by appointment**  
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
