國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：中國大陸的政治發展
#####  Course Name: Political Development of Mainland China
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：261926001 Course No.261926001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_12_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國發碩一、國發博一、國發碩二、國發博二 Course Department:Graduate Institute of Development Studies/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：趙建民 Instructor: CHAO CHIEN-MIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一567 Session: mon14-17


##  課程簡介Course Description
The class is designed to help students without profound knowledge of China to get to know the country’s basic political processes, ideology, leadership, institutions, and developments.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備發展理論基礎與科際整合架構的思考與研究之知能
  * B. 具備國家發展理論與政策實務分析的判斷與批判之能力
  * C. 具有人文關懷與多元價值涵養的解決問題與創新之能力
  * D. 具備國際視野與協調合作思維的溝通與行動之能力
  * E. 具備發展理論基礎與科際整合架構的思考與研究之知能
  * F. 具備國家發展理論與政策實務分析的判斷與批判之能力
  * G. 具有人文關懷與多元價值涵養的解決問題與創新之能力
  * H. 具備國際視野與協調合作思維的溝通與行動之能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The class is designed to help students without profound knowledge of China to get to know the country’s basic political processes, ideology, leadership, institutions, and developments.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week 1: Introduction** : layouts for the class.
**Week 2: Chinese Political Tradition**
***** Dreyer, Chap. 1, “Introduction.”
**Week 3: The CCP’s Rise to Power**
Why did CCP under Mao Zedong score victory against the KMT? What does the Chinese revolution mean for the rest of the world?
***** Dreyer, Chap. 2 “The Chinese Tradition.”
Jung Chang, _Wild Swans: Three Daughters of China_ (London: Flamingo, 1991).
**Week 4: Leadership and Ideology**
What’s communism? What does it mean for the Chinese? What’s Maoism? Is ideology still relevant? Who are the five generations of leadership in China?
* Dreyer, Chapter 3 “Reformers, Warlords, Communists.”
Wang, “The Erosion of Chinese Communist Ideology,” chapter 3, pp. 37-68.
**Xi Jinping, “Secure a Decisive Victory in Building a Moderately Prosperous Society in All Respects and Strive for the Great Success of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era,”report to the 19th Party Congress.
**Ian Johnson, “Xi’s China: The Illusion of Change,” _NY Times_ (2015/11/24). 
David Shambaugh, “Rebuilding the Party: The Ideological Dimension,” in _China’s Communist Party: Atrophy and Adaptation_ (Wash. D.C.; Woodraw Wilson Center Press, 2008), pp. 103-127.
**Week 5: Film 1** :**China: A Century of Revolution, Part II.**
**Week 6: Political Economy under Mao**
Who is Chair Mao and what legacy did he leave behind?
*Dreyer, chapter 4, “PRC Politics under Mao”.
**1 st short paper due**
**Week 7: Political Economy in the Post-Mao Era**
What are the reforms undertaken by Deng Xiaoping? Results?
* Dreyer, chapter 5, “Deng Xiaoping and His Proteges.”
**Week 8: Xi’s Era**
Does Xi aspire to rule for life? 
* Dreyer, chapter 6, “The Era of Xi Jinping.”
* Brown, “Xi the Man,” _CEO, China: The Rise of Xi Jinping,_ chap. 2, pp. 49-105.
Fewsmith, chap. 5, “Xi’s Concentration of Power,” pp. 131-156.
Brown, “Xi and the New Era, _Xi: A Study in Power,_ pp. 135-160.
**Week 9: Succession and Factionalism**
Why is a stable and institutionalized succession in China hard to form?.
***** Dreyer, Chap. 7, “Politics of the Economy”.
Cheng Li, chap. 7, “Factions: One Party, Two Coalitions?” in Li Cheng, _Chinese Politics in the Xi Jinping Era_(2016), pp. 249-300.
Tang Tsou, “Chinese Politics at the Top: Factionalism or Informal Politics? Balance-of-Power Politics or a Game to Win All?” _The China Journal_ , No. 34 (July 1995), pp. 95-156.
**Week 10: Power Structure and Decision-making**
Find out the structure and functions of the CCP power apparatus 
***** Dreyer, Chap. 8, “The Legal System of the PRC.”
**Richard McGregor, _The Party: The Secret World of China's Communist Rulers_ (2012)
Allice Miller, “Road to the 19th Party Congress,” _China Leadership Monitor_ , no, 51 (Fall 2016). 
**Chien-min Chao, “Can Xi Jinping Stop the Bureaucrats from Seeking Rents via Legislation?” in Shiping Hua, ed., _Chinese Legality: Ideology, Law, and Institutions_ (NY: Routledge, 2023).
**The 2 nd short paper due**
**Week 11: Film 2: China: A Century of Revolution, Part III.**
**Week 12: Political System**
What’s the nature of the Chinese party-state system?
***** Dreyer, Chap. 9, “The Role of the Military.”
***** Cheng Li, chap. 2, “Structure: China’s Party-State System,” pp. 41-76.
Pierre F. Landry, _Decentralized Authoritarianism in China_(Cambridge University Press, 2008), chap. 1, pp. 1-27.
**Week 13: the Chinese Model**
Is there a Chinese model? Is it a viable substitute for Western democracy?
***** Dreyer, Chap. 10, “Education.”
*“China as an Economic Superpower,” in Martin Jacques, _When China Rules the World: The Rise of the Middle Kingdom and the End of the Western World_ (London: Allen Lane, 2009), pp. 151-193. 
**Week 1****4 : Film 3: The Time of Xi Jinping**
**The third short paper due**
**Oral Presentation**
**Week 1****5: Reforms and Dissent**
Is the Chinese society stable? What are the possible causes for instability? Find out the ways Chinese authorities have resorted to clamp down on the internet and how the Chinese have resisted.
***** Dreyer, Chap. 11, “Health, Demography, and the Environment.”
*Brown, “The Political Programme of Xi Jinping,”pp. 146-184.
**Roderick MacFarquar, “China: The Superpower of Mr. Xi,” _ChinaFile_ (August 13, 2015). 
**Week 1****6: Future Prospects: Is Democracy an Option?**
Is democracy China’s future? Is it preferable? Is it possible to have “democracy with Chinese characteristics”?
*Dreyer, Chap. 14, “Foreign Policy”.
***** Dreyer, Chap. 15, “Conclusions.”
**Douglas Heaven, “The Uncertain Future of Democracy,” BBC (2017/3/30)
**Andrew J. Nathan, “Authoritarian Resilience,” _Journal of Democracy_ , 14:1 (January 2003), pp. 6-17.
Henry S. Rowen, “When Will the Chinese People Be Free?” _Journal of Democracy_ , 18:3 (July 2007), pp. 38-52.
Minxin Pei, “How Will China Democratize?” _Journal of Democracy_ , 18:3 (July 2007), pp. 53-57.
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_70%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Students are required to read the assignments with the * sign in front (**means recommended readings). 2-3 short reflection papers (2- pages each) are required, as is a term paper (with a length of 5,000-7,000 words) and an oral presentation. Group discussions and class participation are encouraged.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Textbook:**
June T. Dreyer, _China’s Political System: Modernization and Tradition_ , 11th edition (NY: Routledge, 2024).
**References****:**
Joseph Fewsmith, _Rethinking Chinese Politics_ (Cambridge: University of Cambridge Press, 2021).
Kerry Brown, _Xi: A Study in Power_ (London: Icon Books, 2022).
Kerry Brown, _CEO, China: The Rise of Xi Jinping_ (London: I.B. Tauris, 2016).
Elizabeth C. Economy, _The Third Revolution: Xi Jinping and the New Chinese State_ (Oxford University Press, 2018).
Nicholas R. Lardy, _The State Strikes Back: The End of Economic Reform in China?_ (Peterson Institute for International Economics, 2019).
Chien-min Chao & Bruce J. Dickson, ed., _Remaking the Chinese State: Strategies, Society, and Security_ (New York: Routledge, 2001).
Richard McGregor, _Xi Jinping: the Backlash_ (Lowy Institute, 2019).
Zhisui Li, _The Private Life of Chairman Mao_ (London: Arrow Books, 1996)
_Prisoner of the State: The Secret Journal of Zhao Ziyang_ (NY: Simon & Schuster, 2009).
Jung Chang, _Wild Swans: Three Daughters of China_ (London: Flamingo, 1991).
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/07/15 2025 Fall_Chinese_Politics_and_Government.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Part-time faculty, Please contact Professor Chao by email <emchao@nccu.edu.tw> first.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
arranging
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
