國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：兒少福利專題
#####  Course Name: Seminar on Child and Adolescent Welfare
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：264884001 Course No.264884001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：社工碩一、社工博一、社工碩二、社工博二 Course Department:Graduate Institute of Social Work/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：林宜輝 Instructor: LIN YEI-WHEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四567 Session: thu14-17


##  課程簡介Course Description
Compared to their developing counterparts, most advanced industrial countries have provided more complete welfare provision for the child and adolescent population. Also, child policy implementation in these nations has often provided important lessons for welfare latecomers for policy-making. Acknowledging this, in addition to Taiwanese child policy practices, this course will incorporate child welfare provision in advanced industrial countries into the discussion. 
Regarding the course structure, the conception of childhood will first be considered in the context of Western history, because its conceptual change triggered the birth of modern child welfare provision in the 20 th century. Also, Hardiker’s model will be introduced so as to analyze better multifaceted child welfare systems around the world. After that, we move on to study some important issues highly debated in international child policy scholarship. In this regard, both American and European country cases will be chosen for investigation in that their policy developments often have significantly impacted Taiwan’s policy-making. When turning to the research of specific child welfare policies, we will examine three core policy areas, including child protection, foster care and child poverty alleviation. Based on the Western policy lessons, the aim will be to figure out what solutions could help improve Taiwan’s service delivery. Finally, the last section will focus on recent reforms in international child welfare systems. These include integrated children's centres, the media's impact on children and service delivery under the principle of the child's best interests. Based on all the above accumulation of interchange between Western and Eastern policy knowledge, the course is aimed at determining how pro-child actors could be empowered to facilitate effective policy change. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHIJK雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 社會工作專業知能與技巧
  * B. 社會工作倫理與價值
  * C. 社會政策規劃分析
  * D. 團隊與網絡合作之能力
  * E. 研究分析能力
  * F. 尊重多元文化、人文社會關懷、培力與倡導
  * G. 社會工作專業知能與技巧
  * H. 社會政策分析
  * I. 獨立執行研究
  * J. 科際整合
  * K. 培力與倡導


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
**Course Objectives**
In this class, you will:
  * Undertake a historical overview of child welfare systems in advanced industrial countries
  * Carry out a critical assessment of the effectiveness of child welfare progammes in advanced industrial countries in terms of how families with children are served by welfare providers
  * Consider the implications of international policy lesions for Taiwan’s policymaking
  * Evaluate the programmatic outcomes of Taiwan’s child welfare provision
  * Contemplate the progressive proposals in a new round of child welfare reforms


**Learning Outcomes**
Students successfully completing this unit will have: 
  * An awareness of the historical and current nature of child policy abroad
  * Developed basic knowledge and skills in policy evaluation
  * Identified the policy issues fiercely debated in the international child policy arena
  * Become cognizant how to draw useful policy lessons from other countries’ child welfare provision


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
週次 |  課程主題 |  課程內容與指定閱讀 |  教學活動 與作業 |  學生學習投入時間（含課堂教學時數）  
---|---|---|---|---  
Week 1 09/4 |  Introduction to Child and Adolescent Welfare |  Introduction to the themes of the course; why study child and adolescent welfare? Benefits of international policy comparison; why have Taiwan pro-child actors broadened policy learning in international terms? |  Lecture |  3 hr.  
Week 2 09/11 |  The Shifting Concept of Childhood in History 「童年」概念的歷史變遷 |  Karen Wells, “Childhood in a Global Context,” pp. 1-21 in Wells, _Childhood in a Global Perspective_ (Polity 2015). Karen Wells, “Policy and Practice,” pp. 23-44 in Wells, _Childhood in a Global Perspective_ (Polity 2015). |  Lecture |  3 hr.  
Week 3 9/18 |  Analytical Framework: Hardiker’s three-tier intervention model Hardiker 的分析架構 |  Pauline Hardiker, Ken Exton, and Mary Barker. "The Social Policy Contexts of Prevention in Child Care." _The British Journal of Social Work_ 1(4) (1991): 341-59.  John Canvan, John Ponkerton and Pat Dolan, “The Policy and Politics of Family Support,” pp. 1-21 in Canvan et al., _Understanding Family Support: Policy, Practice and Theor_ y (Jessica Kingsley 2016). |  Seminar |  8 hr.  
Week 4 9/25 |  Child Welfare Development (I): American and European cases 兒少福利發展(一)：美國與歐洲個案 |  Duncan Lindsey, “Development of the System,” pp. 11-46 in Lindsey, The welfare of children (Oxford University Press 1994). Sven Hessle, “Sweden,” pp. 31-54 in Dixton and Welbourne (Eds.), Child protection and child welfare: A global appraisal of cultures, policy and practice (Jessica Kingsley 2013). |  Seminar |  8 hr.  
Week 5 10/2 |  Child Welfare Development (ll): Taiwan’s case 兒少福利發展（二） ：台灣個案 |  Child Welfare Bureau, _"The Administrative Report of Child Welfare Bureau in Ministry of Interior_ ” (2012) Hui-jiuan Chien, “ _A Study on Child Welfare Functions and Administrative Structure of Taiwan’s Central Government_ ”, Master Thesis (National Taiwan University 2011). |  Seminar |  8 hr.  
Week 6 10/9 |  Child Maltreatment (I): Anglo-Saxon vs. European policy models 兒虐問題（一）： 英語系國家與歐陸國家的政策模式 |  Neil Gilbert, “Introduction,” pp. 3-6 in Gilbert, _Combating child abuse: international perspectives and trends_ (Oxford University Press 1997). Neil Gilbert, “Conclusion: A Comparative Perspective,” pp. 232-240 in Gilbert, _Combating child abuse: international perspectives and trends_ (Oxford University Press 1997). Supplementary reading: Duncan Lindsey, “The Transformation of Child Welfare into Children's Protective Services,” pp. 89-126 in Lindsey, _The welfare of children_ (Oxford University Press 1994). |  |  6 hr.  
Week 7 10/16 |  Child Maltreatment (II): Taiwan’s policy development  兒虐問題（二）： 台灣的政策發展 |  Yei-Whei Lin and Yi-Ju Chen, “An Institutional Approach to International Child Protection Reforms: The Exchange of Child Protection and Family Support Paradigms and its Implications for Taiwan's Policy Reforms.” _NTU Social Work Journal_ 36 (2017): 97-136.  Hon-Yei Yu, “Modulation of the Child Protection Movement in Taiwan.” _NTU Social Work Journal_ 1 (1999): 149-179. Supplementary reading: Hon-Yei Yu, “Changing Child Protection in Taiwan-The Impacts of Project for Families at High-Risk.” _Taiwan: A Radical Quarterly in Social Studies_ 96(2014): 137-173. |  Seminar |  8 hr.  
Week 8 10/23 |  Foster care (I): Anglo-Saxon vs. European policy responses 兒少寄養問題（一） ：英語系國家與歐陸國家的政策回應 |  June Thoburn, “International Perspective on Foster Care,” pp. 29-43 in Fernandez and Barth (Eds.), _How does Foster Care Work? International evidence on outcomes_ (Jessica Kingsley 2010). Mike Stein, “Supporting young people from care to adulthood.” _Child & Family Social Work_, 24 (2019): 400-405. Supplementary reading: Rob Geen, “The Evolution of Kinship Care Policy and Practice.” _The Future of Children_ , 14(1) (2004): 131-149. |  Seminar |  8 hr.  
Week 9 10/30 |  Foster Care (II): Taiwan’s service development 兒少寄養問題（二） ：台灣的服務發展 |  Wan Yu Chiu and Helen Charnley, “Children's rights and residential care in Taiwan: an exploration of the tensions between global standards and culturally situated practices.” _International social work_ , (2019). Hung-Yi Liu, “The Key Factors Affecting the Life Stability of Young People Leaving Residential Care.” _Journal of Youth Studies_ , 21(1) (2018):165-175. Supplementary reading: Kuo-Lien Pi, “ _The exploration of the life experience after case termination among child protection clients who experienced long-term residential care_ ” Master Thesis (National Taiwan University 2006). Yuan-Shan Lan. “Foster Care Adoption Practice Challenges in Taiwan: Suggestions for Future Research and Policy._”_ _Community Development Journal_ 159 (2017): 244-253. |  Seminar |  8 hr.  
Week 10 11/6 |  Child Poverty (I): Anglo-Saxon vs. European policy responses 兒少貧窮問題（一） ：英語系國家與歐陸國家的政策回應 |  UNICEF, _Child poverty in perspective: an overview of child well-being in rich countries_. (UNICEF, Innocenti Research Centre 2007). Duncan Lindsey, “Developing a Child’s Future Security Account Program,” pp. 301-320 in Lindsey, _The welfare of children_ (Oxford University Press 1994). Supplementary reading: Monit Cheung, and Elena Delavega. “Child Savings Accounts: Learning from Poverty Reduction Policies in the World.” _International Social Work_ 55(1) (January 2012): 71–94.  |  Seminar |  8 hr.  
Week 11 11/13 |  Child Poverty (II): Taiwan’s policy development 兒少貧窮問題（二） ：台灣的政策發展 |  UNICEF, _Child poverty in perspective: an overview of child well-being in rich countries_. (UNICEF, Innocenti Research Centre 2007). Duncan Lindsey, “Developing a Child’s Future Security Account Program,” pp. 301-320 in Lindsey, _The welfare of children_ (Oxford University Press 1994). Supplementary reading: Monit Cheung, and Elena Delavega. “Child Savings Accounts: Learning from Poverty Reduction Policies in the World.” _International Social Work_ 55(1) (January 2012): 71–94.  |  Seminar |  7 hr.  
Week 12 11/20 |  Service Organization Change (I): Integrated Child Centers 服務組織的變革（一）：整合式兒少福利中心 |  Warren, Adamson, Chris. “Research Review: Family Centres: A Review of the Literature.” _Child & Family Social Work_ 11 (2) (2006): 171–82.  Peter Nelson, Sharon Tabberer and Tom Chrisp (2011) “Integrated Working in Children's Centres: A User Pathway Analysis._” Practice_ 23(5) (2011): 293-310. Supplementary reading: Jane Lewis, Rebecca Cuthbert, and Sophie Sarre. 2011. “What Are Children's Centres? The Development of CC Services, 2004-2008.” _Social Policy & Administration_ 45 (1): 35–53. |  Seminar |  6 hr  
Week 13 11/27 |  Service Organization Change (II): Social Safety Net Program in Taiwan 服務組織的變革（二）：台灣的社會安全網計劃 |  Ministry of Health and Welfare “ _The Project of Strengthening Social Security Network_ ” (Ministry of Health and Welfare 2018). Hui-jiuan Chien et al. “Strengthen Social Safety Net Programs: How to Find and Protect Vulnerable Families in the Community.” _Community Development Journal_ 165(2019): 30-41. |  Seminar |  7 hr.  
Week 14 12/4 |  Ideational Change: The Incorporation of the “Child’s Best Interest” into Policy Design 政策理念的的變革：兒少最佳利益的政策體現 |  Marit Skivenes and Line Marie Sørsdal “The Child's Best Interest Principle across Child Protection Jurisdictions,” pp. 59-88 in Falch-Eriksen and Backe-Hansen (Eds.), _Human Rights in Child Protection_ (Palgrave Macmillan 2019). Supplementary Pei-Chun Lin. “Toward a Better Understanding of the Right of the Child to Be Heard: A Rights-based Approach for Children in Child Protective Proceedings.” _Taiwan Human Rights Journal_ 4(1) (2017): 73-96.  |  Seminar |  8 hr.  
Week 15 12/11 |  Students’ Presentation of Research Topic |  |  Seminar |  3hr.  
Week 16 12/18 |  Research Report Submission |  |  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_70%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Course requirements**
(1) _Class participation and weekly discussion questions_ : as a small seminar, class participation is vital to the success of this course. To this end, I will be keeping track of who comes to class and how much they contribute, which will be factored into the final grade. To help foster discussion, I would like you to email to me a set of questions each week that the reading raised for you, which might be useful for the class to discuss. 
(2)_One take-home essay exam_ : I will post the questions on a set date, and you will have 120 hours to complete this essay. You can choose the 120-hour period during which you would like to write the essay. When ready, you will need to log into the module system and click on the exam (under the testing tab), and I will be able to see when you have downloaded it. This means you should not download the exam until you are ready to take it, as the clock will be ticking from the time you first click on it.
(3) _One short research paper:_ This paper is for you to develop your interest in a particular area of child welfare policy. The paper should be 12-15 pages long and examine an aspect of child welfare policy in another country (or countries), or otherwise, consider Taiwanese child welfare policy/ service from a comparative perspective. Everyone should meet with me once during the semester to discuss their topic. We will discuss the paper on the first day of class and collectively set a due date. Detailed specifications about the paper (length, font, citations, etc.) have been posted on moudle.
**Assessment**
-- Discussion questions and class participation: 30%
-- One take-home exam: 20%
-- Research paper: 50%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Books**
Canvan, J., Ponkerton, J., and Dolan, P. (2016). _Understanding Family Support: Policy, Practice and Theory_. London: Jessica Kingsley.
Chien, H-J. (2011). _A Study on Child Welfare Functions and Administrative Structure of Taiwan’s Central Government_. Master thesis, National Taiwan University.
Fernandez, E., and Barth, R.P. (2010). _How does Foster Care Work? International evidence on outcomes_. London: Jessica Kingsley.
Gilbert, N. (1997). _Combating child abuse: international perspectives and trends_. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Heywood, C. (2001). _A history of childhood: children and childhood in the West from medieval to modern times_. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Karen, W. (2015). _Childhood in a Global Perspective_. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Lindsey, D. (2004). _The welfare of children_. New York: Oxford University Press.
Ministry of Health and Welfare (2018). _The Project of Strengthening Social Safety Net_. Taipei: Ministry of Health and Welfare.
Pi, K-L. (2006). _The exploration of the life experience after case termination among child protection clients who experienced long-term residential care_. Master Thesis, National Taiwan University.
Skivenes, M., and Marie Sørsdal, L. (2019). “The Child’s Best Interest Principle across Child Protection Jurisdictions,” in Falch-Eriksen and Backe-Hansen (eds), Human Rights in Child Protection (Palgrave Macmillan: 59-88).
Strasburger, V.C., Wilson, B.J. and Jordan, A.B. (2014) _Children, Adolescents and the Media_. California: Sage. 
Sven H, “Sweden,” in Dixton and Welbourne (Eds.), Child protection and child welfare: A global appraisal of cultures, policy and practice (Jessica Kingsley 2013: 31-54).
UNICEF (2007) _Child poverty in perspective: an overview of child well-being in rich countries_. Florence: UNICEF, Innocenti Research Centre.
**Journal Papers**
Chen, Y., and Chen, K-M. (2020). The Effect of Family Relationships on the Subjective Well-being among Disadvantaged Young People. _NPUST Humanities and Social Science Research_ , 14(1): 39-58.
Chien, H-J., Wu, C-S. and Tsai, H-Y. (2019). Strengthening Social Safety Net Programs: How to find and protect vulnerable families in the community. _Community Development Journal_ , 165: 30-41.
Cheung, M., and Delavega, E. (2012). Child Savings Accounts: Learning from Poverty Reduction Policies in the World. _International Social Work_ , 55(1): 71–94.
Chiu, W-Y., and Charnley, H. (2019). Children's rights and residential care in Taiwan: an exploration of the tensions between global standards and culturally situated practices. _International social work_.
Geen, R. (2004). The Evolution of Kinship Care Policy and Practice. _The Future of Children_ , 14(1), 131-149. 
Hardiker, P., Exton, K., and Barker, M. (1991). The Social Policy Contexts of Prevention in Child Care. _The British Journal of Social Work_ , 1(4): 341-59.
Lan, Y-S. (2017). Foster Care Adoption Practice Challenges in Taiwan: Suggestions for Future Research and Policy. C _ommunity Development Journal_ , 159: 244-253.
Lin, P-C. (2017). Toward a Better Understanding of the Right of the Child to Be Heard: A Rights-based Approach for Children in Child Protective Proceedings. _Taiwan Human Rights Journal_ , 4(1): 73-96.
Lin, Y-W. and Chen, Y-J. (2017). An Institutional Approach to International Child Protection Reforms: The Exchange of Child Protection and Family Support Paradigms and its Implications for Taiwan's Policy Reforms. _NTU Social Work Journal_ , 36: 97-136.
Liu, H-Y. (2018). The Key Factors Affecting the Life Stability of Young People Leaving Residential Care. _Journal of Youth Studies_ , 21(1):165-175.
Liu, Y-P., and Chen, Y-W. (2016). The associations between part-time work and depressive mood among economically disadvantaged adolescents: From a stress process perspective. _NTU Social Work Journal_ , 17: 43-94.
Lewis, J., Cuthbert, R., and Sarre, S. (2011). What Are Children’s Centres? The Development of CC Services, 2004-2008. _Social Policy & Administration_, 45 (1): 35–53.
Nelson, P., Tabberer, S., and Chrisp, T. (2011). Integrated Working in Children's Centres: A User Pathway Analysis._Practice_ , 23(5): 293-310.
Stein, M. (2019). Supporting young people from care to adulthood. _Child & Family Social Work_, 24: 400-405.
Yu, H-Y. (1999). Modulation of the Child Protection Movement in Taiwan. _NTU Social Work Journal_ , 1: 149-179.
Yu, H-Y. (2014). Changing Child Protection in Taiwan-The Impacts of Project for Families at High-Risk. Taiwan: A Radical Quarterly in Social Studies, 96: 137-173.
Warren, A. C. (2006). Research Review: Family Centres: A Review of the Literature. _Child & Family Social Work_, 11 (2): 171–82.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
課程第一, 二週連結: 
https://meet.google.com/joe-sfmu-ifu
 (使用 Google Meet)



```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office Hours: Tuesday, 1:45-4 pm, or by appointment
Office: General Building of College, Rm. 270701
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
