國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：亞太區域發展 
#####  Course Name: Asia-Pacific Regional Development
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：265001001 Course No.265001001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太博一、亞太博二 Course Department:International Doctoral Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/D/1&2 
  * 授課老師：杜福童 Instructor: Reidhead Jacob 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三567 Session: wed14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
_Content_ : This course is a survey of key topics from the four main subfields within the IDAS program: Public Governance, International Relations, Political Economy, and Society and Culture. This course will introduce how social scientists study the Asia Pacific. We will consider a variety of theoretical debates, methods, and disciplinary approaches throughout the social sciences.
_Audience_ : This course is required for NCCU IDAS doctoral students. Assigments will prepare IDAS students for their Qualifying Exam. The course is also open to graduate students from other programs who wish to study the Asia Pacific region from a social science perspective.
_Pre-requisites_ : No prerequisites. Students will be expected to read and write at a graduate level.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備學術發表能力
  * C. 具備獨立研究能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Students will be introduced to the knowledge domains and academic skills necessary to study the Asia Pacific region from a social science perspective:
1. Survey the topics, theories and readings of the four IDAS exam areas
2. Evaluate the arguments, evidence and framing of research papers
3. Prepare essay responses to prior Qualifying Exam questions.
As students read papers, take notes and write analytical summaries, they are encouraged to prepare and organize these materials in preparation for their qualifier exam and thesis prospectus.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Fall 2025 Schedule
Week |  Date |  Readings |  Activities |  Assessments  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  9/3 |  Introduction |  _Reviewing Literature_ Rank QE fields & topics |   
Module 1 - International Relations  
2 |  9/10 |  IR Theories and Topics |  _Argument on three levels_ Operationalize variables |   
3 |  9/17 |  Asia Pacific Security |  _Causality and Inference_ Theorize causal args |   
4 |  9/24 |  Security Studies: Middle Powers |  _Structuring an Argument_ QE Response Essay Instructions |   
5 |  10/1 |  Cross-strait Relations: Silicon Triangle |  Silicon Triangle Forum |  QE Essay 1 Due Sun 10/5 23:59  
Module 2 - Public Governance  
6 |  10/8 |  Public Gov Paradigms |  _Types of Arguments: RQ, MA_ |   
7 |  10/15 |  Institutional perspective: Institutional reform and governing efficiency |  _Breaking down arguments_ Review QE Essay 1 |   
8 |  10/22 |  Market perspective: Social media communication strategies of government agencies |  _Propositions & Hypotheses_ MA à Propositions & Hypotheses |   
9 |  10/29 |  Network perspective: Efficiency of regulatory agency networks |  _Contrast Perspectives and Audiences in QE Essay_ Institutions, Markets, Networks |  QE Essay 2 Due Sun 11/2 23:59  
Module 3 - Political Economy  
10 |  11/5 |  China’s Marketization and Regional Stratification. Special Issue in AJS |  _Matching front-end and back-end: logic of RQ, MA=logic of RD & DA_ |   
11 |  11/12 |  Dependency Theory and the East Asian Miracle |  _Breaking down paragraphs_ Review QE Essay 2 |   
12 |  11/19 |  Crony Capitalism and the Asian Financial Crisis |  _Professional Skills: Journals_ |  QE Essay 3 Due Sun 11/23 23:59  
Module 4 - Society and Culture  
13 |  11/26 |  Demand-led Industrialization & Family Firms – Part 1 |  _Professional Skills: Conferences_ |   
14 |  12/3 |  Demand-led Industrialization & Family Firms – Part II |  _Breaking down style, audience_ Review QE Essay 3 |   
15 |  12/10 |  Labor Migration in Asia – Part I |  _Professional Skills Networking and Choosing an Advisor_ |   
16 |  12/17 |  Labor Migration in Asia – Part II |  |  QE Essay 4 Due Sun 12/21 23:59  
Grades Due 1/5 23:59  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.