國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：諸世界秩序的政治神學
#####  Course Name: Political Theologies of World Orders
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：265770001 Course No.265770001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_15_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太博一、亞太博二、亞太博三 Course Department:International Doctoral Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/D/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：梁家瑜 Instructor: LIANG CHIA-YU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三567 Session: wed14-17


##  課程簡介Course Description
‘Political Theologies of World Orders’ is a one semester module for postgraduate students. It aims at (1) presenting the scope and core areas of political theologies, (2) nurturing their abilities to reflect on the theopolitical aspects of world politics, and (3) developing their abilities to express their analysis and interpretation of world politics through an inter-religious, theopolitical lens. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備學術發表能力
  * C. 具備獨立研究能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The objectives of the module include (1) familiarising the students with the central themes and approaches of political theologies, (2) encouraging the students’ development in thinking critically and writing academically, and (3) fostering the students’ awareness and reflection on the relations between religions and world politics.
The design of the assignments, including the essay abstract (mid-term), weekly class presentation, and term paper (end of term), aims to help students to develop the ability to form coherent and succinct arguments, and present them in an articulate, well-informed, academic term paper. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
_**1. Introduction: The Question, the Approach, and the Implications**_
William Bain, ‘Chapter 11. Political Theology and Uncertainty in International Relations’, in Lotte List, Mitchell Dean, and Stefan Schwarzkopf eds., _Political Theology Today: 100 Years After Carl Schmitt_ (Bloomsbury, 2023), pp. 171-184.
_**2. The Theological and the Political for the Ancients and the Moderns**_
Dante Alighieri, _Dante: Monarchy_ (CUP, 1996).
Carl Schmitt, _Political Theology: Four Chapters on the Concept of Sovereignty_ (University of Chicago Press, 2005).
_**3. The Theopolitical Tradition of Christianity**_
Ernst Kantorowicz, _The King's Two Bodies: A Study in Medieval Political Theology_ (Princeton University Press, 2016).
René Girard, _The Scapegoat_ (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1989).
_**4. The Theopolitical Tradition of Imperial China**_
Dong, Zhongshu, _Luxuriant Gems of the Spring and Autumn_ (Columbia University Press, 2015).
Wang, Aihe, _Cosmology and Political Culture in Early China_ (Cambridge University Press, 2000).
_**5. The Theopolitical Tradition of India**_
Kautilya, _The Arthashastra_ (Penguin, 2000).
Deepshikha Shahi, ‘3. Kautilya Meets Buddha: Arthasastra between the Realpolitik and Moralpolitik of Asoka’s Mauryan Empire’, _Kautilya and Non-Western IR Theory_ (Springer, 2018), pp. 57-94.
_**6. The Theopolitical Tradition of Islam**_
Ibn Khaldûn, _The Muqaddimah: An Introduction to History_ (Princeton University Press, 2020).
Paul L. Heck, _Political Theology and Islam: From the Birth of Empire to the Modern State_ (University of Notre Dame Press, 2023).
_**7. The Theopolitical Tradition of Buddhism**_
Matthew J. Moore, _Buddhism and Political Theory_ (OUP, 2016), pp. 15-42.
Aakash Singh, ‘11. The Political Theology of Navayana Buddhism’, in Peter Losonczi, Mika Luoma-Aho, and Aakash Singh eds. _The Future of Political Theology: Religious and Theological Perspectives_ (Routledge, 2016).
_**8. The Political Theology of Modern International Order**_
Martti Koskenniemi, ‘International Law as Political Theology: How to Read Nomos der Erde?’, _Constellations_ , 11(2004): 492-511.
Liane Hartnett, ‘Love as a Practice of Peace: The Political Theologies of Tolstoy, Gandhi and King’, in Vassilios Paipais ed., _Theology and World Politics: Metaphysics, Genealogies, Political Theologies_ (Palgrave, 2020), pp. 265-287.
_**9. The Political Theology of the Post-WWII Order**_
Dorothee Sölle, _Beyond Mere Obedience: Reflections on a Christian Ethic for the Future_ (Minneapolis: Augsburg, 1970).
Nur Masalha & Lisa Isherwood eds., _Theologies of Liberation in Palestine-Israel: Indigenous, Contextual, and Postcolonial Perspectives_ (The Lutterworth Press, 2014).
_**10. The Socialist Political Theology**_
Mikhail Bakunin, ‘The Political Theology of Mazzini And The International’, _The Anarchist Library_ , https://theanarchistlibrary.org/library/mikhail-bakunin-the-political-theology-of-mazzini-and-the-international (accessed 18 June 2025).
Peter McMylor, ‘Chapter 4. Marxism and Socialism: Sacred and Profane’, in Graeme Kirkpatrick, Peter McMylor, Simin Fadaee eds., _Marxism, Religion, and Emancipatory Politics_ (Springer, 2022), pp. 59-78.
_**11. The Liberal Political Theology**_
Nicolas Guilhot, ‘2. American Katechon: Christian Realism and the Theological Foundations of International Relations Theory’, _After the Enlightenment: Political Realism and International Relations in the Mid-Twentieth Century_ (CUP, 2017), pp. 69-114.
_**12. The End of Cold War Revisited**_
Desmond Mpilo Tutu, _No Future without Forgiveness_ (Doubleday, 1999).
Kathleen Nadeau, 'Chapter 9. Theologies of Struggle, Marxism, and Grassroots Development in the Philippines’, in Graeme Kirkpatrick, Peter McMylor, Simin Fadaee eds., _Marxism, Religion, and Emancipatory Politics_ (Springer, 2022), pp. 157-176.
_**13. The Return of Religion in Global Politics**_
Slavoj Žižek, _On Belief_ (Routledge, 2001)
Shannon Brincat, ‘The Cosmology of Mādhyamaka Buddhism and Its World of Deep Relationalism’, in Vassilios Paipais ed., _Theology and World Politics: Metaphysics, Genealogies, Political Theologies_ (Palgrave, 2020), pp. 105-128.
Scott M. Thomas, ‘7. Soulcraft as Statecraft? Diplomacy, Conflict Resolution, and Peacebuilding’, _The Global Resurgence of Religion and the Transformation of International Relations: The Struggle for the Soul of the Twenty-first Century_ (Palgrave, 2005), pp. 173-196.
_**14. The Political Theology of the People’s Republic of China**_
Jieren Hu and Joshua Mauldin, ‘6. Tripartite Control of Religion: Reconceptualizing State-Religion Relations in China’, in Joshua Mauldin ed., _Political Theology in Chinese Society_ (Routledge, 2024).
Liu Xiaofeng, _Sino-Theology and the Philosophy of History: A Collection of Essays by Liu Xiaofeng_ (Brill, 2015).
Jiang Shigong, _China’s Hong Kong: A Political and Cultural Perspective_ (Springer, 2017).
_**15. The Return of Heavenly Kingdoms**_
Kristina Stoeckl & Dmitry Uzlaner, _The Moralist International: Russia in the Global Culture Wars_ (Fordham University Press, 2022).
Michał Łuczewski, Slavic Political Theology: Słowacki Between Bakunin and Schmitt, _Church Life Journal: A Journal of the McGrath Institute for Church Life_ , February 24, 2023. https://churchlifejournal.nd.edu/articles/slavic-political-theology-juliusz-sowacki-between-bakunin-and-schmitt/ (accessed 18 June 2025).
_**16. The Future of Legitimation of World Order**_
Kwok Pui-lan, _Postcolonial Politics and Theology: Unraveling Empire for a Global World_ (Westminster John Knox Press, 2021).
Aakash Singh, ‘11. The Political Theology of Navayana Buddhism’, in Péter Losonczi, Mika Luoma-aho, and Aakash Singh eds., _The Future of Political Theology: Religious and Theological Perspectives_ (Routledge 2012).
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_40%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_20%_
####  其他： Others: Weekly presentation 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class Attendance |  10%  
---|---  
Participation |  10%  
Individual presentation |  30%  
Abstract of term paper (1 page) |  20%  
Term paper (1500-2000 words) |  30%  
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Lotte List, Mitchell Dean, and Stefan Schwarzkopf eds., Political Theology Today: 100 Years After Carl Schmitt (Bloomsbury, 2023)
Carl Schmitt, Political Theology: Four Chapters on the Concept of Sovereignty (University of Chicago Press, 2005).
Ernst Kantorowicz, The King's Two Bodies: A Study in Medieval Political Theology (Princeton University Press, 2016).
René Girard, The Scapegoat (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1989).
Dong, Zhongshu, _Luxuriant Gems of the Spring and Autumn_ (Columbia University Press, 2015).
Wang, Aihe, _Cosmology and Political Culture in Early China_ (Cambridge University Press, 2000).
Kautilya, The Arthashastra (Penguin, 2000).
Deepshikha Shahi, Kautilya and Non-Western IR Theory (Springer, 2018).
Ibn Khaldûn, The Muqaddimah: An Introduction to History (Princeton University Press, 2020).
Paul L. Heck, Political Theology and Islam: From the Birth of Empire to the Modern State (University of Notre Dame Press, 2023).
Matthew J. Moore, Buddhism and Political Theory (OUP, 2016).
Peter Losonczi, Mika Luoma-Aho, and Aakash Singh eds. The Future of Political Theology: Religious and Theological Perspectives (Routledge, 2016). 
Vassilios Paipais ed., Theology and World Politics: Metaphysics, Genealogies, Political Theologies (Palgrave, 2020).
Dorothee Sölle, Beyond Mere Obedience: Reflections on a Christian Ethic for the Future (Minneapolis: Augsburg, 1970).
Nur Masalha & Lisa Isherwood eds., Theologies of Liberation in Palestine-Israel: Indigenous, Contextual, and Postcolonial Perspectives (The Lutterworth Press, 2014). 
Mikhail Bakunin, ‘The Political Theology of Mazzini And The International’
Graeme Kirkpatrick, Peter McMylor, Simin Fadaee eds., Marxism, Religion, and Emancipatory Politics (Springer, 2022).
Nicolas Guilhot, After the Enlightenment: Political Realism and International Relations in the Mid-Twentieth Century (CUP, 2017).
Slavoj Žižek, On Belief (Routledge, 2001).
Scott M. Thomas, The Global Resurgence of Religion and the Transformation of International Relations: The Struggle for the Soul of the Twenty-first Century (Palgrave, 2005).
Joshua Mauldin ed., Political Theology in Chinese Society (Routledge, 2024). 
Liu Xiaofeng, _Sino-Theology and the Philosophy of History: A Collection of Essays by Liu Xiaofeng_ (Brill, 2015).
Jiang Shigong, _China’s Hong Kong: A Political and Cultural Perspective_ (Springer, 2017).
Kristina Stoeckl & Dmitry Uzlaner, The Moralist International: Russia in the Global Culture Wars (Fordham University Press, 2022).
Kwok Pui-lan, Postcolonial Politics and Theology: Unraveling Empire for a Global World (Westminster John Knox Press, 2021).
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Students are encouraged to email the lecturer to arrange meetings online or in person.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
