國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：文化社會學
#####  Course Name: Sociology of Culture
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：265771001 Course No.265771001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太博一、亞太博二、亞太博三 Course Department:International Doctoral Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/D/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：杜福童 Instructor: Reidhead Jacob 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一567 Session: mon14-17
##  課程簡介Course Description
## Content
Culture is one of the broadest umbrella concepts studied across all fields of the humanities and social sciences. Understanding how meanings, values, and symbols shape social life reveals the hidden forces that influence behavior, power, and identity. This course will approach culture from the sociological perspectives of social structure, cultural production, power and identity, and cultural consuption and reception. Students will engage theories as well as methodological approaches to culture. The aim of this course is not only to prepare students to read and discuss and think about culture, but also to conduct sociological research on cultural phenomena.
## Audience
This course was created with IDAS students in mind. PhD and MA students from other graduate programs are welcome to join.
## Pre-requisites
No prerequisites are required.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備學術發表能力
  * C. 具備獨立研究能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
## Course Activities
In class, students will actively participate in seminars.
Out of class, students will:
  * Read assigned materials before class
  * Compose Reflections either individually or in in small groups
  * Complete individual milestones culminating in a research proposal term paper
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Fall 2025 Schedule
Week |  Date |  Readings |  Assessments |  Deadlines  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  9/1 |  Introduction |  |   
Module 1 Culture and Social Structure  
2 |  9/8 |  Canonical |  |   
3 |  9/15 |  Contemporary |  Reflection 1 |  Sun 9/21 23:59  
4 |  9/22 |  Asia-Pacific |  Milestone 1 – Article List |  Sun 9/28 23:59  
Week of 9/29 – Teacher’s Day – Deferred Holiday  
|  |  |  |   
Week of 10/6 – Moon Festival – Holiday  
|  |  |  |   
Module 2 Cultural Production and Institutions  
5 |  10/13 |  Canonical |  |   
6 |  10/20 |  Contemporary |  Reflection 2 |  Sun 10/16 23:59  
7 |  10/27 |  Asia-Pacific |  Milestone 2 – Article Summaries |  Sun 11/2 23:59  
Module 3 Culture, Power, and Identity  
8 |  11/3 |  Canonical |  |   
9 |  11/10 |  Contemporary |  Reflection 3 |  Sun 11/16 23:59  
10 |  11/17 |  Asia-Pacific |  Milestone 3 – Annotated Outline |  Sun 11/23 23:59  
Module 4 Cultural Consumption and Reception  
11 |  11/24 |  Canonical |  |   
12 |  12/1 |  Contemporary |  Reflection 4 |  Sun 12/7 23:59  
13 |  12/8 |  Asia-Pacific |  Milestone 4 – First Draft |  Sun 12/14 23:59  
Module 5 Methods of Researching Culture  
14 |  9/29-10/3 |  Canonical |  |   
15 |  9/29-10/3 |  Contemporary |  |   
16 |  10/6-10/10 |  Asia-Pacific |  |   
|  |  |  Milestone 5 – Final Draft |  Sun 12/28 23:59  
Grades Due 1/5 23:59  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.