國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：亞太政治經濟
#####  Course Name: Seminar on Asia-Pacific Political Economy
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：265806001 Course No.265806001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_15_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太博一、亞太博二、亞太博三 Course Department:International Doctoral Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/D/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：陳永福 Instructor: ALEXANDER C. TAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
**Course introduction:**
_[Please note that this class will be conducted online from the start of the semester till October 17th. The instructor will provide the link for the online classes]_.
This course examines the historical major economic, political, and social changes in the Asia-Pacific economy. These include factors contributing to increases in economic performance, changes in the form of government, technological change (including industrialization), and episodes of integration and disintegration of the global economy. Can there be development outside of a state structure? What is the role of economic organizations of society in development? These are some of the questions that we examine in these, and in so doing, we will survey some of the major theoretical approaches to understanding the politics of economic development.
Emphasis is on institutional changes in how societies organize economic and political activities as well as on variation in development among geographic regions. Using this background, the course takes up some key issues facing nation-states, including foreign trade and investment, debt, aid, and agents of change. Political economy is a core course for any political science degree at any level. The knowledge and the ability to methodically and empirically analyse how politics and economics interact is fundamental in the scientific and empirical study of politics and international relations. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備學術發表能力
  * C. 具備獨立研究能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
**Learning outcomes and course objectives:**
Upon satisfactory completion of this course, students will be able to:
1. Read original articles in political science and international relations, political economy, economic history, and development studies journals;
2. Have the knowledge and skills to analyse and evaluate the various theoretical approaches to political economy;
3. Understand how the international economic system operates and understand the various mechanisms by which economies develop;
4. Apply political science, economic and development theories and analysis to historical and contemporary episodes of contemporary political-economic issues;
5. Understand the different perspectives and theories of development and change in the modern era;
6. Analyse the competing interests, motivations and rhetoric of key stakeholders and interest groups;
7. Conduct research and think critically and to develop academic writing styles to suit different purposes;
8. Understand the issues and processes described and to relate them to current affairs and present-day issues of significance;
9. Write well-structured, coherent, and concise essays that synthesize ideas as presented in discussion, readings, and research materials.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Course schedule and required readings:**
**Sep****5**
Introduction to the course
**Sep 12**
Olson, Mancur. 1993. “Dictatorship, Democracy and Development.” _American Political Science Review_ 87 (3): 567-576.
**Sep 19**
Olson, Mancur. 1996. “Big Bills Left on the Sidewalk: Why Some Nations are Rich and Others Poor.” _Journal of Economic Perspectives_ 10 (2): 3-24.
Harford, Tim. 2006._The Undercover Economist_. New York: Oxford University Press. (Chapters 8, 10)
**Sep 26/Oct 3**(all students will write a summary)  
Bates, Robert. 2001. _Prosperity and Violence:_ _The Political Economy of Development_. New York: Free Press. 
**Oct 10** No class—holiday
**Oct 17/Oct 24**
White, T. Lynn. 2009. _Political Booms: Local Money and Power in Taiwan, East China,_Thailand and the Philippines_. Singapore: World Scientific Publishing. (Chapters 1, 4, 5)_
Nooruddin, Irfan. 2012. _Coalition Politics and Economic Development_. New York: Oxford University Press. (Chapters 1, 2, 3) 
**Oct 31**
Haggard, Stefan. 1990. _Pathways from the Periphery_. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press. (Chapters 1, 2, 6)  
Video: “Inside Japan Inc.”
**Nov 7**
Clark, Cal and Alexander C. Tan. 2012. _Taiwan’s Political Economy: Meeting Challenges,_Pursuing Progress_. Boulder, Colorado: Lynne Rienner Publishing. (Chapters 2, 3, 4, 5) _
Video: “The Fight for Democracy”
**Nov 14/Nov 21**
Fields, Karl J. 1995. Enterprise and the State in Korea and Taiwan. Ithaca: NY: Cornell University Press. (Chapters 1, 2, 3)  
Wade, Robert. 1990. _Governing the Market: Economic Theory and the Role of Government_ _in East Asian Industrialization._ Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press. (Chapters 1, 2, 3)
Video: “Big Business and the Ghost of Confucius”
**Nov 28/****Dec 5**
Heo, U. and Tan, AC. 2003. ‘Political Choices and Economic Outcomes: A Perspective on the Differential Impact of the Financial Crisis on South Korea and Taiwan’,  _Comparative Political Studies_ , 36(6), pp. 679–698. doi: 10.1177/0010414003254192.
Tan, AC., 2001. “Taiwan: Sustained state autonomy and a step back from liberalization,” in Shale Horowitz and Uk Heo (eds.) _The political economy of international financial crises: Interest groups, ideologies, and institutions_ , pp.165-176. New York: Rowman and Littlefield.
Tan AC. 2009. “The Politics of Financial Reform in Taiwan: Actors, Institutions, and the Changing State.  _Asian Affairs: An American Review_ 36(4): 201-212.
Magcamit MI. and Tan AC. 2015. “Crouching tiger, lurking dragon: understanding Taiwan's sovereignty and trade linkages in the twenty-first century.”  _International Relations of the Asia-Pacific_ 15(1): 81-112
Clark C., Tan AC. and Ho K. 2018. “Confronting the Costs of its Past Success: Revisiting Taiwan’s Post-authoritarian Political and Economic Development.”  _Asian Politics & Policy_ 10(3): 460-484.
Video: “Industrial Policy”
**Dec 12**
He, Tian. 2020. Transforming the East Asian developmental state: Democratic mobilisation and the role of the middle class. _Asian Journal of Comparative Politics_ 6 (2): 109-126.
Manacsa RC. and Tan AC. 2012. "Strong republic" sidetracked: Oligarchic dynamics, democratization, and economic development in the Philippines.  _Korea Observer_ 43(1): 47-88.
He, Tian. 2020. “Towards a theory of the transformation of the developmental state: Political elites, social actors and state policy constraints in South Korea and Taiwan.” _Japanese Journal of Political Science,_  _21_(2), 47-67. doi:10.1017/S1468109919000197
Thurbon, Elizabeth. 2020. “The Future of Financial Activism in Taiwan? The Utility of a Mindset-centred Analysis of Developmental States and Their Evolution.” _New Political Economy_ , 25:3, 320-336, DOI: 10.1080/13563467.2018.1562436
Video: “Will Robots Disrupt East Asia’s Development Model? (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n_-3K0lPDL0)
  
**Dec 19 Final exam**
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_60%_
####  討論 Discussion
_%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Course requirements:**
1) Summaries (15%). Students will be assigned to summarize three (3) readings for the whole semester. The summary must contain the main arguments of the readings – theory, hypotheses, findings, and conclusions. In writing the summary, students are also required to submit three (3) questions from or about the reading that can be used for class discussion. The summary will have a word count of 900-1000 words (not including the discussion questions). This summary will be submitted to the instructor and the teaching assistant 24 hours before class time. 
2) Reading presentation (15%). Each student will be assigned to do two (2) presentations of the readings in class – one presentation in each half of the semester – of the reading that they have been assigned to summarize. Each presentation should be 15 minutes in length. To do the reading presentations, students are required to prepare five (5) presentation slides (PowerPoint) that contain the main points of the arguments presented in the reading. The presentation slides will be submitted to the instructor and the teaching assistant 24 hours before class time.
3) Class attendance and participation (10%). As this class is a postgraduate-level paper, students are expected to have read the materials/readings prior to each class. The seminar format of the class requires students to meaningfully participate in the discussion of the readings assigned for the class day. 
4) Final exam (60%). This in-class closed-book three (3) hour final exam is scheduled on the last lecture day (December 19, 2025) of our semester. The final exam is an assessment of the student’s mastery and knowledge of all the materials (lectures, readings, films, etc.) covered in the course this semester. 
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office hour: by appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
