國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：東南亞比較政治
#####  Course Name: Comparative Politics in Southeast Asia
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：265891001 Course No.265891001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_15_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太博一、亞太博二、亞太博三 Course Department:International Doctoral Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/D/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：游雅雯 Instructor: YU YA-WEN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course aims to equip graduate students with an essential understanding of the main themes and core readings of the topic of comparative politics in Southeast Asia (SEA). Since the end of the Second World War, the SEA countries gradually gained independence from the Western colonial states. After the SEA countries became sovereign states and started the process of nation-building, they had to deal with various issues that modern states encounter, such as transforming from authoritarianism to democratization, electoral politics, political parties, populism and clientelism, identity politics, and ethnic politics.  
  
First, we will comprehend the disciplines of Southeast Asian studies, and the political development of SEA from the colonial to post-colonial period. Secondly, we will discuss the dynamics of political regimes in the SEA countries, namely, authoritarian regimes, hybrid regimes, democratic regimes, and others. Thirdly, we will conduct in-depth country research on topics such as electoral politics, party politics, clientelism, ethnic politics, and religious politics in Southeast Asian countries. Lastly, we will explore how Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippinds, and Thailand deal with the issues of party politics, celientelist politics, and ethnic and religious politics in the process of nation-building.  
  
No previous work on the topic is required for this course. However, students should be aware that the material reviewed in this course represents only a portion of a larger body of literature of the topic. Students are strongly encouraged to follow current issues and events in each country and try to relate them to the organization of this course.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備學術發表能力
  * C. 具備獨立研究能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  1. Students will understand the history of SEA countries.
  2. Students will obtain the essential knowledge of political development of SEA countries.
  3. Student will learn the skills to discuss important issues facing SEA countries.
  4. Students will address a research question based on the reading materials, will learn how to write literature review, and write an academic research paper in the end of semester.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Weekly Topics and Readings:**
**Week 1 Course Introduction (9/5)**
1. Introduction to the course and methods of evaluations.  
2. Announce the course requirements and general policies of this course.  
3. Allocate the weekly presentation sequences.  
  
**Week 2 Political Economy in Southeast Asia(9/12)**
Downloading book chapters: https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-030-28255-4
Hameiri, S., Jones, L. (2020). Theorising Political Economy in Southeast Asia. In: Carroll, T., Hameiri, S., Jones, L. (eds) The Political Economy of Southeast Asia. Studies in the Political Economy of Public Policy. Palgrave Macmillan, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-28255-4_1
Rodan, G., Baker, J. (2020). Explaining Political Regimes in Southeast Asia: A Modes of Participation Framework. In: Carroll, T., Hameiri, S., Jones, L. (eds) The Political Economy of Southeast Asia. Studies in the Political Economy of Public Policy. Palgrave Macmillan, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-28255-4_3
Hatcher, P. (2020). The Political Economy of Southeast Asia’s Extractive Industries: Governance, Power Struggles and Development Outcomes. In: Carroll, T., Hameiri, S., Jones, L. (eds) The Political Economy of Southeast Asia. Studies in the Political Economy of Public Policy. Palgrave Macmillan, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-28255-4_13
**  
Week 3 Post-colonial Development in Southeast Asia(9/19)**
Carroll, T. (2020). The Political Economy of Southeast Asia’s Development from Independence to Hyperglobalisation. In: Carroll, T., Hameiri, S., Jones, L. (eds) The Political Economy of Southeast Asia. Studies in the Political Economy of Public Policy. Palgrave Macmillan, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-28255-4_2
Hughes, C. (2020). Transitions from State “Socialism” in Southeast Asia. In: Carroll, T., Hameiri, S., Jones, L. (eds) The Political Economy of Southeast Asia. Studies in the Political Economy of Public Policy. Palgrave Macmillan, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-28255-4_4
Al-Fadhat, F. (2020). The Internationalisation of Capital and the Transformation of Statehood in Southeast Asia. In: Carroll, T., Hameiri, S., Jones, L. (eds) The Political Economy of Southeast Asia. Studies in the Political Economy of Public Policy. Palgrave Macmillan, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-28255-4_7
  
**Week 4 Regional Politics in Southeast Asia(9/26)**
Buszynski, L. (2024). Geopolitics of Southeast Asia. In: Cope, Z. (eds) The Palgrave Handbook of Contemporary Geopolitics. Palgrave Macmillan, Cham. Pp. 1-22. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-25399-7_18-1  
下載：https://link.springer.com/referenceworkentry/10.1007/978-3-031-25399-7_18-1
Permata, I. M. (2024) Hydro-Hegemony Assertion: the Dragon on the Mainland Southeast Asia. East Asia 41, 163–181 . https://doi.org/10.1007/s12140-023-09423-7
Wang, L. (2023) China–Japan Competition in Infrastructure Investment in Southeast Asia: A Two-Level Analysis. Chin. Polit. Sci. Rev. 8, 527–552. https://doi.org/10.1007/s41111-022-00231-7
  
**Week 5 Comparative Political Regimes(10/3)**
Croissant, Aurel and Philip Lorenz. 2018. “Government and Political Regimes in Southeast Asia: An Introduction.” Comparative Politics of Southeast Asia. Pp 1-14. New York: Springer.   
https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-031-05114-2
Croissant, Aurel and Philip Lorenz. 2018. “Chapter 13 Conclusion: Comparing Governments and Political Institutions in Southeast Asia.” Comparative Politics of Southeast Asia. Pp 403-438. New York: Springer. https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-031-05114-2
Croissant, Aurel and Philip Lorenz. 2018. “Indonesia: Challenges of Conflict and Consensus in the Era of Reformasi” Comparative Politics of Southeast Asia. Pp 71-111. New York: Springer.   
https://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-031-05114-2  
  
**Week 6 National Holiday (10/10)**
**Week 7 Party Politics (10/17)**
Morgenbesser, Lee, and Thomas B. Pepinsky. 2019. "Elections as causes of democratization: Southeast Asia in comparative perspective." Comparative Political Studies 52(1): 3-35.
Tomsa, Dirk, and Andreas Ufen. 2013. “Introduction: Party Politics and Clientelism in Southeast Asia.” In Tomsa, Dirk, Andreas Ufen, and Andreas Ufen (eds.), Party Politics in Southeast Asia : Clientelism and Electoral Competition in Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines. Pp. 1-19.
Tomsa, Dirk. 2013. “What type of party? Southeast Asian Parties between Clientelism and Electoralism.” In Tomsa, Dirk, Andreas Ufen, and Andreas Ufen (eds.), Party Politics in Southeast Asia : Clientelism and Electoral Competition in Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines. Pp. 20-39.
  
**Week 8 National Holiday (10/24)**
**Week 9 Clientelism (10/31)**
Berenschot, Ward, and Edward Aspinall. 2020. “How Clientelism Caries: Comparing Patronage Democracies.” Democratization, 27(1): 1-19.
Tomsa, Dirk. 2013. “Class, Charisma, and Clientelism in Thai and Philippines Populist Parties.” In Tomsa, Dirk, Andreas Ufen, and Andreas Ufen (eds.), Party Politics in Southeast Asia : Clientelism and Electoral Competition in Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines. Pp. 62-79.
Weiss, Meredith L. 2020. “Duelling Networks: Relational Clientelism in Electoral-Authoritarian Malaysia.” Democratization 27(1): 100-118.
**Week 10 Ethnic Politics in SEA (11/7)**
Pepinsky, Thomas. 2021. “Ethnic Orders: Making Identity in Malaysia and Beyond.” Discussion paper. https://niehaus.princeton.edu/sites/g/files/toruqf451/files/documents/ethnic%20orders%20princeton.pdf
Welsh, Bridget. 2020. “Malaysia’s Political Polarization: Race, Religion, and Reform.” In Carothers, Thomas and Andrew O’Donohue (eds.) Political Polarization in South and Southeast Asia: Old Divisions, New Dangers. Pp. 41-52.  
https://carnegieendowment.org/files/Political_Polarization_RPT_FINAL1.pdf
Warburton, Eve. 2020. “Depending Polarization and Democratic Decline in Indonesia.” In Carothers, Thomas and Andrew O’Donohue (eds.) Political Polarization in South and Southeast Asia: Old Divisions, New Dangers. Pp. 25-40.  
  
**Week 11 Religious Nationalism in SEA(11/14)**
Widian, Rizky, Tutu Aging Nara Indra Prima Satya. 2022. “Religion in Indonesia’s Elections: An Implementation of a Populist Strategy.” Politics and Religion 1-23.
Fossati, Diego. 2019. “The Resurgence of Ideology in Indonesia: Political Islam, Aliran and Political Behaviour.” Journal of Current Southeast Asian Affairs. 38(2): 119-148.
Simandjuntak, Deasy. 2021. “Disciplining the Accepted and Amputating the Deviants: Religious Nationalism and Segregated Citizenship in Indonesia.” Asian Journal of Law and Society 8(1), 88-107.
**Week 12 Indonesia (11/21)**
Pribadi, Yanwar. 2018. “Islam and Santri Culture in Madura.” Islam, State and Society in Indonesia: Local Politics in Madura. New York: Routledge. Pp. 26-58.
Pribadi, Yanwar. 2018. “Local Strongmen, tradition, and Overlooked Aspects of the Madurese.” Islam, State and Society in Indonesia: Local Politics in Madura. New York: Routledge. Pp. 87-127.
Pribadi, Yanwar. 2018. “Election Politics: Between Alliance and Competition.” Islam, State and Society in Indonesia: Local Politics in Madura. New York: Routledge. Pp. 167-216.  
  
**Week 13 Malaysia (11/28)**
Dettman, Sebastian, and Thomas B. Pepinsky. 2024. “Demographic structure and voting behaviour during democratization: evidence from Malaysia’s 2022 election.” Democratization 31(1): 1-22.
Ostwald, Kai, and Steven Oliver. 2020. "Four arenas: Malaysia’s 2018 election, reform, and democratization." Democratization 27(4): 662-680.
Weiss, Meredith L. 2020. "The Limits of “Populism”: How Malaysia Misses the Mark and Why That Matters." Journal of Current Southeast Asian Affairs 39(2): 207-226.  
  
**Week 14 Philippines (12/5)**
Teehankee, Julio C. 2013. “Electoral System Choice and Parties in Mew Democracies: Lessons from the Philippines and Indonesia. In Tomsa, Dirk, Andreas Ufen, and Andreas Ufen (eds.), Party Politics in Southeast Asia : Clientelism and Electoral Competition in Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines. Pp. 101-119. 
Teehankee, Julio C. 2013. “Clientelism and Party Politics in the Philippines.” In Tomsa, Dirk, Andreas Ufen, and Andreas Ufen (eds.), Party Politics in Southeast Asia : Clientelism and Electoral Competition in Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines. Pp. 186-214.  
  
**Week 15 Thailand (12/12)**
Kongkorati, Prank. 2019. “From illiberal democracy to military authoritarianism: Intra-elite struggle and mass-based conflict in deeply polarized Thailand.” The ANNALS of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 681(1): 24-40.
Sniping, Aim. 2021. “Hashtag activism: social media and the# FreeYouth protests in Thailand.” Critical Asian Studies 53(2): 192-205.
Lorch, Jasmin. 2021. ”Elite capture, civil society and democratic backsliding in Bangladesh, Thailand and the Philippines.” Democratization 28(1): 81-102.
**Week 16 Final paper submission (12/19)**
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_70%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class participation |  20%  
---|---  
Leading Discussion |  40%   
Final paper  |  40%  
**Total** |  **100%**  
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
TBA
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
TBA
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
