國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：統計分析導論 
#####  Course Name: Introduction to Statistical Analysis
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：265933001 Course No.265933001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_10_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太博一、亞太博二、亞太博三 Course Department:International Doctoral Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/D/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：關秉寅 Instructor: KUAN PING-YIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四567 Session: thu14-17 


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course introduces students to the essential tools of statistics and shows how these tools are used in the analysis of social science data. A fundamental understanding of statistics is a crucial foundation for social science research across various fields. The course covers descriptive statistics, inference from samples, hypothesis testing, and the basics of regression analysis.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備學術發表能力
  * C. 具備獨立研究能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to complete the following tasks:  
1. Explain basic concepts of social statistics (e.g., population vs. sample, sampling distribution).  
2. Summarize numeric data by computing descriptive statistics (e.g., mean, variance) and by creating tables and graphs. For each procedure, you will learn a hand calculation method (using calculators) and a computer method (using software such as Stata or R).  
3. Compute various inferential statistics (e.g., t-score).  
4. Test hypotheses applying probability theory.  
5. Explain the differences among various statistical techniques and identify an appropriate technique for a given set of variables and research questions.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Topic** |  **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course Introduction; Statistics and Social Research  |  Ch. 1 |  Lecture; In-class Discussion; Homework  
2 |  Basic Descriptive Statistics I |  Ch. 2 |  Lecture; In-class Discussion; Homework  
3 |  Descriptive Statistics II |  Ch. 3 |  Lecture; In-class Discussion; Homework  
4 |  R Lesson I  |  |  Lecture; In-class Discussion  
5 |  Probability Distribution I |  Ch. 4 |  Lecture; In-class Discussion; Homework  
6 |  Probability Distribution II |  Ch. 4 |  Lecture; In-class Discussion; Homework  
7 |  Estimation |  Ch. 5 |  Lecture; In-class Discussion; Homework  
8 |  1st Quiz & Review |  |  Quiz  
9 |  Statistical Inference I |  Ch. 6 |  Lecture; In-class Discussion; Homework  
10 |  Statistical Inference II |  Ch. 6 |  Lecture; In-class Discussion; Homework  
11 |  Comparison of Two Groups |  Ch. 7 |  Lecture; In-class Discussion; Homework  
12 |  Analyzing Association between Categorical Variables |  Ch. 8 |  Lecture; In-class Discussion; Homework  
13 |  Comparing Groups: ANOVA I |  Ch. 12 |  Lecture; In-class Discussion; Homework  
14 |  Linear Regression and Correlation |  Ch. 11 |  Lecture; In-class Discussion; Homework  
15 |  Linear Regression and Correlation II |  Ch. 11 |  Lecture; In-class Discussion; Homework  
16 |  Final Exam |  |  Quiz  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_70%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
## Evaluation Criteria
Attendance:  
Class attendance is required. Unlike some other courses, statistics requires you to gradually but constantly build your knowledge and skills. It is very difficult to catch up once you get behind. You are also expected to contribute to the class by asking questions, participating in class discussions, and working with each other on in-class exercises. Therefore, your attendance is essential for making these contributions.
Reading Assignments:  
You are expected to read the assigned chapters before you come to each session. In order to successfully complete reading assignments, you need to understand what is in each chapter. In addition to highlighting the text and taking notes, I suggest you write down any specific questions.  
You may find some chapters challenging to follow. Don't worry if this happens. It is important to finish reading the assigned chapter before each session to get a general idea about the chapter and go back to it after class to make sure that you understand the materials better.
  
Homework Assignments:  
Learning by doing is very important for your understanding of statistics. There will be exercise questions given to you at the end of most sessions. You will have at least a week to complete each assignment. If you start working on your assignments early, you will have a chance to ask questions in the next class session before submitting your assignments.  
I will collect assignments at the beginning of the scheduled class sessions (or you may submit assignments to Moodle in MS Word format). If you turn in your assignments late (anytime after the class session starts and before 4:00 pm on the next day), you will lose points. Where to submit late assignments: To be arranged by the TA.
Honor Code:  
Please help each other by all means by exchanging notes for missed class sessions, studying for exams, etc. The assignments that you turn in should be your own work, however.
You must acknowledge all instances in which generative AI tools were used in an assignment (such as in ideation, research, analysis, editing, debugging, etc.).
Any form of violation will result in a "zero" for that particular assignment or an "F" for the course, at my discretion.
Grading:  
Homework Assignments: 50%  
Tests (2 exams including final): 40%  
Attendance: 10%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
1. Agresti, Alan 2018. Statistical Methods for the Social Sciences. UpperSaddle River, NJ: Pearson International Education. https://www.pearson.com/us/higher-education/program/Agresti-Statistical-Methods-for-the-Social-Sciences-5th-Edition/PGM334444.html  
2. Navarro, Danielle. Learning Statistics with R. https://learningstatisticswithr.com/
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Students should disclose and properly attribute any use of AI tools. Using AI to generate responses and submitting them as one's own is considered a violation. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office Hours: Thurs. 12 noon - 1:30 pm
Office: RM# 271214, 12th Fl., North Wing, General Building of Colleges
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
