國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：永續發展數據分析：理論與應用
#####  Course Name: Data Analysis for Sustainable Development: Theory and Applications
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：266849001 Course No.266849001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_10_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：應社碩一、應社碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program of Applied Economics and Social Development/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：卞中佩 Instructor: Pien Chung-pei 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12 


##  課程簡介Course Description
Sustainable development has been ardently advocated by numerous international institutions, governments, NGOs, and corporations in recent years. Despite its growing prominence, the concept of sustainable development is broad and complex. One illustrative example of its scope is the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These cover a wide array of interconnected objectives, ranging from poverty eradication and climate action, to ensuring inclusive education and beyond.
Navigating these multifaceted and often nebulous concepts can pose a significant challenge. The tasks of defining these goals, assessing progress, and crafting effective strategies are no small feats. Yet, the advent of advanced data analysis tools and techniques provides a promising pathway to address these complex issues.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備獨立研究能力
  * C. 具備學術發表能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is designed to illuminate this intersection. Its goal is to equip students with the necessary knowledge and skills to apply data analysis in the context of sustainable development. Through this journey, students will cultivate a robust understanding of how to define, evaluate, and address sustainable development goals using data-driven approaches.
This course is designed to leverage data analysis in order to evaluate the ways in which various groups and classes mobilize to promote their agendas, ultimately impacting the progress of sustainable development. These social actors encompass corporations, trade associations, social classes, racial and ethnic groups, as well as the state. Through this course, you will embark on a journey into a dynamic and rapidly evolving field that has the potential to drive significant change on corporate, national, and even global levels.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week 1: Introduction of the Course (2025/9/4)**
Introduction: Relationships between Sustainable Development and Data Analysis
UN Global Pulse (May 2012) Big Data for Development: Challenges and Opportunities.
**Week 2: Data Sources: Governmental Data, Private Data, and Citizen Data (2025/9/11)**
**Section 1: Corporations and Sustainable Development**
**Week 3: Organizations and Environment (2025/9/18)**
Grant et. al. “Organizational Size and Pollution: The Case of the U.S. Chemical Industry.” American Sociological Review, 67:389-407. 
Prechel, Harland and Lu Zheng. 2011. “Corporate Characteristics, Political Embeddedness, and Environmental Pollution by Large U.S. Corporations.
**Week 4: Corporations, Climate Change, and Carbon Emissions (2025/9/25)**
Prechel, Harland.2021. “Neoliberal Organizational and Political-Legal Arrangements and Greenhouse Gas Emissions in the U.S. Electrical Energy Sector.” The Sociological Quarterly, 62:2, 209-233
Pien, Chao, and Chou. Forthcoming 2023. “The Developmental State’s Legacy and Corporate Carbon Emission Performance: Evidence from Taiwanese Firms between 2014 and 2018.” Climate and Development.
**Week 5: Practices in Corporation Analysis (2025/10/2)**
**Section 2: Spatial Factors and Sustainable Development**
**Week 6: Spatial Analysis and Social Inequality****(2025/10/9)**
Mollalo, Vahedi, and Rivera. 2020. "GIS-based spatial modeling of COVID-19 incidence rate in the continental United States." Science of the total environment 728 (2020). 
Chetty, Friedman, Hendren, Jones, Porter. “The Opportunity Atlas: Mapping the Childhood Roots of Social Mobility” NBER wp, 2018
**Week 7: Spatial Analysis and Climate Change (2025/10/16)**
Chang, H.S., Su, Q. and Jheng, D.C., 2022. “Comparing the spatial patterns of flooding and individual risk perception: A case study of Yunlin, Taiwan.” Urban Climate, 45
Pien et. al. Draft. 2023. "Local Energy Transition Practice’s Political Impacts: Evidence from Taiwanese Nuclear Referendums in 2018 and 2021"
**Week 8: Practices in Spatial Analysis (2025/10/23)**
**Week 9: The 10th International Symposium on Environmental Sociology in East Asia (2025/10/30)**
Attend ISESEA-10@NTU
**Section 3: Neo-liberalism and Income**
**Week 10: Income Evaluation (2025/11/6)**
Rose, Stephen. 2018. “How Different Studies Measure Income Inequality in the US: Piketty and Company Are Not the Only Game in Town.” Urban Institute.
Atkinson, Piketty, and Saez. 2011. “Top incomes in the long run of history.” Journal of economic literature, 49(1), pp.3-71.
**Week 11: Income Inequality after the 1980s (2025/11/13)**
Nau. 2013. Economic Elites, Investments, and Income Inequality. Social Forces, 92:2
Chu et al. 2023. Distributional National Accounts of Taiwan, 1981–2017. Taiwan Economic Review, 51:2
**Week 12: Practice in Income Analysis (2025/11/20)**
**Section 4: The State and International Efforts and Sustainability**
**Week 13: Foreign Aid (2025/11/27)**
Burnside, Craig, and David Dollar. 2000. "Aid, Policies and Growth." American Economic Review 90 (4):847-68
Dunning, Thad. 2004. "Conditioning the Effects of Aid: Cold War Politics, Donor Credibility, and Democracy in Africa." International Organization 58 (2):409-23
**Week 14: The State and Renewable Energy Development (2025/12/4)**
Dani Rodrik. 1998. “Why Do More Open Economies Have Bigger Governments?” Journal of Political Economy 106 (1998), 997-1032
Alves et. al. 2019. From a breeze to the four winds: A panel analysis of the international diffusion of renewable energy incentive policies (2005–2015). Energy policy, 125.
**Week 15: Practice in State and International Institutions (2025/12/11)**
**Week 16: Final Proposal Presentation (2025/11/18)**
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
1. It is essential that you complete all required readings before attending the classes.
2. This course is structured into different sections, each consisting of both literature classes and practice classes.
3. In the literature classes, students are expected to write critique papers. For the short paper, students should review all the assigned readings for a given week. The critique should include a clear identification of the research question(s), the cause, the effect, theoretical argument, empirical design, and findings of the readings. It is important to focus on identifying one central theoretical limitation or one central empirical limitation that has significant conceptual implications for the analysis. Furthermore, students should provide a thorough analysis of the weakness and present a plausible argument for possible improvements. Each short paper should be two single-spaced pages and must be submitted by 5 pm prior to the day of the course. Additionally, students are expected to read and provide feedback on other teams' critique papers. Authors are responsible for sharing their short papers with the entire class. 
4. During the practice classes, the instructor will assign several projects for the students. Students should prepare the necessary data and codes before the classes and complete the projects during the practice sessions.
5. All students are required to utilize data analysis techniques to develop individual final project papers on a topic within the field of sustainable development. Students should carefully follow the guidelines provided by the instructors to effectively develop their final proposals and papers.
**Generative AI Utility Policy**
Conditional Acceptance:
  1. Use ChatGPT as a teaching assistant.
  2. Work independently on assignments, particularly in coding.
  3. Seek help when facing challenges or in need of inspiration.


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Treat ChatGPT as a TA. Seek help when encountering difficulty or seeking inspiration. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Click Google Calendar Office Hour Link
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
