國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：環境經濟學
#####  Course Name: Environmental Economics
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：266898001 Course No.266898001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_10_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：應社碩一、應社碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program of Applied Economics and Social Development/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：李慧琳 Instructor: LEE HUEY-LIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to introduce to undergraduate and postgraduate students the pertinent economic theories and their applications to contemporary environmental problems. We will firstly introduce the Economics-based analytical approaches for environmental studies. We particularly focus on contemporary environmental issues such as pollution, greenhouse gases emissions and virtual trade of natural resources. Secondly we will discuss the literature on the nexus between trade, national economy and sustainability. Countries derive additional economic benefits from trade than otherwise, for example, with augmented domestic production. Natural environment and resources are used as input for producing exported goods (or to accommodate pollutants discharged from the production process). However, environmental stress concomitant with the economic boom was not properly attended nor charged. Typical of such case, Asian-Pacific economies are attracting the world’s attention in their rapid economic growth, sizable markets and increasingly significant role in the global economy. Domestic and global factors have together shaped the diverse economies in this region, particularly in their economic structure and development pathways and strategies. Inextricably linked with economic activities, environmental quality and natural resource endowment in this region are facing tremendous stress from far and near. Developed and developing countries of this region share a common development experience by thriving their economies on trade, though now even more intensive globalization. Sustainable development in both the economy and environment is thus concerned. A good grasp of the economy-environment nexus from both economy-wide and world-wide perspectives is imperative and helpful in guiding pertinent policies to effectively tackle the dual challenge of sustainability transition. 
The course participants are encouraged to get involved in the discussion on issues and analyses particularly from the perspectives of economics, and to summarize in the form of academic writing the insights and policy implications derived from the literature review. Students will form small groups to present and discuss on selected papers. Presentations of the group projects by the students on their literature review of pertinent theories, applications and policy assessment will culminate with the course.
The topics we will review of literature centering the nexus of trade, economy and the environment, mainly from economic perspectives, are:
  1. The nexus between trade, economy and the environment,
  2. Environment impact of economic activities,
  3. Natural resource leakage from developing countries,
  4. Economic development pathways and strategies of the developed countries, and their experiences in managing the concomitant environmental stress, 
  5. Economic analysis on policies for correcting negative externality of economic activities, and
  6. Measures proposed for green growth.


The participants will get experience in doing academic literature review and writing-up, in addition to the knowledge of trade and environmental economic theories.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備獨立研究能力
  * C. 具備學術發表能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is designed to introduce to under-/post-graduate students pertinent economic theories and their applications to contemporary environmental problems. 
In this course, we will firstly introduce the Economics-based analytical approaches for environmental studies. We particularly focus on contemporary environmental issues such as pollution, greenhouse gases emissions and virtual trade of natural resources. Secondly we will discuss the literature on the nexus between trade, national economy and sustainability.
The topics we will review of literature centering the nexus of trade, economy and the environment, mainly from economic perspectives, are:
  1. The nexus between trade, economy and the environment,
  2. Environment impact of economic activities,
  3. Natural resource leakage from developing countries,
  4. Economic development pathways and strategies of the developed countries, and their experiences in managing the concomitant environmental stress, 
  5. Economic analysis on policies for correcting negative externality of economic activities, and
  6. Measures proposed for green growth.


The participants will get experience in doing academic literature review and writing-up, in addition to the knowledge of trade and environmental economic theory. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Part I. Weekly lectures (tentative schedule):**
**週次** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** |  **教學活動與課前、課後作業** |  **學生學習投入時間** **（含課堂教學時數）**  
---|---|---|---  
W1 |  Introduction of the course and activity arrangement  |  Lecture |   
W2-3 |  The economy and the environment |  Lecture |  (3+4.5) ea  
W4 |  Economic analysis of environmental issues |  Lecture |  (3+4.5) ea  
W5 |  Library resource workshop |  lecture/hands-on exercise |  3+4.5  
W6 |  Ecological economics and environmental accounting |  Lecture |  (3+4.5) ea  
W7 |  Population, Agriculture and the environment  |  Lecture |  (3+4.5) ea  
W8-9 |  Pollution: Impacts and policy responses |  Lecture |  (3+4.5) ea  
W10-11 |  Environment, trade and development |  Lecture |  (3+4.5) ea  
W12 |  Project preliminary presentation |  student presentations |  3+4.5  
W12 |  The nexus between trade, economy and the environment |  lecture/ paper pre-study |  (3+4.5) ea  
W13 |  Natural resource leakage from developing countries |  lecture/ paper pre-study |  (3+4.5) ea  
W14 |  Economic development strategies and the environmental stress |  lecture/ paper pre-study |  (3+4.5) ea  
W15-16 |  Oral Presentations of the Group Projects |  student presentations |  3+ as much as possible.  
W16 |  Written Reports of the Group Projects |  students to submit written reports. |  3+ as much as possible.  
**Part II. Group projects:**
Students are asked to establish small groups (at the minimum, two per group) to present and comment on selected papers under the theme related to trade-economy-environment nexus. Feedback and discussion at the presentation shall be summarized in the written reports of the group projects. So the presenters be sure to seek feedback and invite discussion at their presentations.
Students need to find their partners themselves for the group project. Groups have to set their work schedule and management plan for the project.  It is advised that students devote at least three hours per week on the project. Presentations of the group projects consist of two parts: oral and written (both in English). A preliminary oral presentation is arranged at the early stage of the project for the instructor to offer suggestions toward the final project. Formal oral presentations of the group projects will be scheduled prior to the final-exam week. Written reports are due the last week of the semester.
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Grading plan:**
(1) In-class discussion: 20% 
(2) Preliminary report of the group project (oral with PowerPoint presentation): 20%
(3) Oral presentation of group project: 20%
(4) Written report of the group project: 40%
註：若有使用生成式AI工具於小組文獻回顧報告之PPT製作與書面報告撰寫，需提供對照版本：人工修訂過之版本及與AI版本之對照表。
Note: If generative AI tools are used for PPT and report writing for the group literature review project, a comparison table must be appended: the manually revised version based on the AI version vs. the AI version.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Textbook for beginners in this field:**
Harris, J. M. (2013). _Environmental and natural resource economics: a contemporary  
approach_ (3rd ed.). Boston: Houghton Mifflin.
**NB: More references to be offered after the first class meeting and subsequently to coordinate with the topics decided for project writing.**
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Students shall attach a declaration of AI use in the written report of the literature review project. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Please understand that all the arrangements stated in this syllabus are tentative and will be adjusted according to the composition of students. As a result, the instructor reserves the right to made revision or modification to this syllabus during the semester and will announce the changes, if any, in the class.
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By email appointment: hlee [@] mail2.nccu.tw 
Subject line of the email correspondence shall start with **[114-1EnvEcon]**.
Here is the Google Meet access to our Environmental Economics course:  
Thursdays 13:10-16:00 (GMT+8)  
114-1 Environmental Economics - Huey-Lin Lee  
Google Meet access： meet.google.com/kjj-jvgg-rwn 
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
