國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：不動產金融與資產投資
#####  Course Name: Real estate finance and asset investment
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：266940001 Course No.266940001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_10_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：應社碩一、應社碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program of Applied Economics and Social Development/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：林左裕 Instructor: LIN TSO-YU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This class welcomes senior-year students of the undergraduate level and all the graduate students from Taiwan and international society. The course will start from the introduction on basic finance, appraisal/valuation techniques and then the investment decision making on various assets. Investment objects include real estate, stock, bond, currencies, gold, real estate investment trust (REIT) and financial derivatives (e.g., futures and options). It is expected that every student will be able to conduct financial analysis and make independent decision after the training of this course, or become the expert/consultant in the investment firm. Professor Lin will also show his own experience in investment and demonstrate the real-time investment practice in class. His record in vestment was 100% rate of return--- in2-3 months. He provided correct investment suggestions in both 2008/11 and 2020/2 in public speech and publications, which were both the lowest points before the QE policies. He will share his experiences in predicting the right timeing in this class.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備獨立研究能力
  * C. 具備學術發表能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Specific topics of this course are listed below.
1. Introduction of the Principles of Finance and the application on real estate investment analysis. 
2. Introduction of various mortgage programs and the amortization analysis. 
3. Introduction of real estate and mortgage securitization, e.g., Real Estate Investment Trust (REIT), Mortgage-backed security (MBS), the subprime mortgage crisis, and the inter-relationship between the housing market and financial market.
4.Introduction of the design of mortgage-related products and the factors affecting their prices, e.g., MBS, STRIP (IO and PO), collateralized-mortgage obligation (CMO)、CDO、CLO, as well as other financial derivatives (e.g., options) and the structured finance.
5. Introduction of the signals or indicators of financial crisis as well as the timing of investment, e.g., yield curve. 
6. Introduction of the approaches and cases of real estate appraisal, in relation to investment analysis.
7. Comparative analysis and integration of investment tools, inc. real estate, stock, bond, currencies, …, and so on.
8. The financial feasibility of investment project, including the development of hotel, theme park and commercial complex.
9. Introduction of international housing policies and housing markets.
10. Introduction of international financial crises in relation to real estate bubbles, e.g., US subprime mortgage crisis versus Quantitative Easing (QE) policiies, from QE1, QE2, QE3 to the "Unlimited QE" after the COVID-19 pandemic. 
11. Introduction of the most recent trend in real estate sector and financial markets, e.g., the application of "Big Data", or FinTech, and so on. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
1. Introducation of real estate and other asset vs. the investment. / Chapter 1 in the textbook + "Are Stock and Real Estate Markets Integrated? An Empirical Study of Six Asian Economies”, Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, 19, pp. 571-585" / Class instruction and reading and review / 3hr + 3hr
2. Types of risks and risk management / Chapter 2 in the textbook / Class instruction and reading and review / 3hr + 3hr
3. Basic finance principle and financial calculator / Ch.3 in the textbook / /Class instruction and reading and review / 3hr + 3hr
4. Financial statement analysis and creation of cash flow statement (direct method) / Ch4 in the textbook / Class instruction and reading and review / 3hr + 5hr 
5. Capital budgeting tools on real estate investment / Ch. 5 in the textbook / Class instruction and reading and review / 3hr + 5hr 
6. Real estate development and market analysis / Ch. 6 in the textbook + "The Effect of Housing Prices on Consumption and Economic Growth --- The Case of Taiwan,” Journal of the Asia Pacific Economy / Class instruction and reading and review / 3hr + 4hr
7. Real estate appraisal / Ch. 7 in the texkbook + ** _The Development of REIT Markets and Real Estate Appraisal in Taiwan_** , _Journal of Real Estate Literature_ , 15(2), pp. 281-300 /  Class instruction and reading and review / 3hr + 5hr
8. Real estate and financial markets / Ch.8 in the textbook + Global Commodity Prices, Economic Activity and Monetary Policy: The Relevance of China," Resources Policy, 42, pp. 1-9 / Class instruction and reading and review / 3hr + 5hr
9. Mortgage analysis / Ch. 9 in the textbook + The Valuation and Demand Analysis of the Reverse Mortgage,” Journal of Valuation, No. 5, pp. 1-34 + The Application of Reverse Mortgage on the Aging Society, Journal of Risk Management, 10(3), pp. 293-314 / / Class instruction and reading and review / 3hr + 5hr
10. Real estate and asset securitization / Ch. 10 in the textbook + “Dynamic Modeling of Real Estate Investment Trusts and Stock Markets,” Economic Modelling, 29, pp. 395-407 / Class instruction and reading and review / 3hr + 5hr
11. Pricing of mortgage-related securities / Ch. 11 in the textbook / Class instruction and reading and review / 3hr + 5hr
12. Financial crises versus real estate markets / Ch. 8 in the textbook + “Modeling Property Bubble Dynamics in Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain,” Journal of European Real Estate Research, 9(1), pp. 52-75./Class instruction and reading and review / 3hr + 5hr
13-14. Financial feasibility on project development / Ch.14 in the textbook / computer lab using excel software/ Class instruction and reading and review / 3hr + 5hr for each week
15Group presentation / Class instruction and reading and review / 3hr + 5hr
16 Final exam
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_60%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_10%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others: feasibility analysis for development on projects 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class attendance and participation (10%), investment feasibility analysis of the project development (25%, individual), group presentation on investment project (30%, team), final exam (35%). (Subject to change)
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  1. Brueggeman, W. and J. Fisher. (2021 or newest edition) Real Estate Finance and Investments. Irwin. 


(To be reserved for reading in the NCCU library)
2. Lin, Tsoyu Calvin (2022)。 Real Estate Managements不動產投資管理（the 7th edition）, 智勝書局Bestwise Publishing Co. 
3. 
  1. **Lin, Tsoyu Calvin, Williman Temponi Gonçalves, Wei-Qing Wang, and Zong-Han Lin* (2023)** “The Average Propensity to Consume of the Urban Chinese Household: An Analysis by Income Level,” International Journal of Business (Indexed in ABI/INFORM Global, Academic, Academic Journal Catalogue, BowkerLink, Cabell's, EBSCO, Gale, Google Scholar, **JEL, EconLit** , InfoTrac, RoMEO, ProQuest, Research Gate, **Scopus** , Social Science Research Network (SSRN), and Ulrich's Periodicals Directory, accepted and forthcoming).
  2. Lin, Tsoyu Calvin*, and Shih-Hsun Hsu (2020) “Forecasting Housing Markets from Number of Visits to Actual Price Registration System,” International Real Estate Review, 23(4), 505-536, (SCIE, Scopus, EBSCO, Cabell)


3. Lin, Tsoyu Calvin (2020) “The Relation between Housing Prices and Business Innovation,”International Journal of Economics, Finance and Business Management Studies, 5(1)
4. Lin, Tsoyu Calvin (2019) “The Effect of Housing Prices on Consumption and Economic Growth --- The Case of Taiwan,”Journal of the Asia Pacific Economy, 24(2): pp. 292-312 (SSCI, , co-authored with S.Hsu and Y. Lin,).
**5. Lin, Tsoyu Calvin** (2016) “Modeling Property Bubble Dynamics in Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain,”Journal of European Real Estate Research, 9(1), pp. 52-75. (EconLit, Scopus, ESCI等co-authored with P. Klotz and S. Hsu).
6. **Lin, Tsoyu Calvin** (2015) "The Relationship between Real Estate Investment Trusts and Real Estate Markets," Journal of Contemporary Management, 4(2), pp. 29-46 (,coauthored with Yi-Fen Chiu).
**7. Lin, Tsoyu Calvin**(2014) "Global Commodity Prices, Economic Activity and Monetary Policy: The Relevance of China," Resources Policy, 42, pp. 1-9 (SCI, coauthored with P. Klotz and S. Hsu).
**8. Lin, Tsoyu Calvin** (2012) “Dynamic Modeling of Real Estate Investment Trusts and Stock Markets,” Economic Modelling, 29, pp. 395-407 (**SSCI** , coauthored with C. Lee and M. Chien).
9. Lin, **Tsoyu Calvin** (2011) "Are Stock and Real Estate Markets Integrated? An Empirical Study of Six Asian Economies”, Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, 19, pp. 571-585(**SSCI** , co-authored with T. Lin).
10. Lin, Tsoyu Calvin (2009) The Application of Reverse Mortgage on the Aging Society, Journal of Risk Management, 10(3), pp. 293-314（co-authored with Huang, Wu and Cheng）。
**11. Lin, Tsoyu Calvin** (2007) **_The Development of REIT Markets and Real Estate Appraisal in Taiwan_** , _Journal of Real Estate Literature_ , 15(2), pp. 281-300 (**FLI** , Publication of **American Real Estate Society** , 11.
12. Lin, Tsoyu Calvin（林左裕）(2004) _A Study on the Termination Behavior of Residential Mortgages in Taiwan,__Journal of Agricultural Economics_ , 76, pp. 209-235 
13. Clauretie, T. and G. S. Sirmans. (2011) Real Estate Finance, Prentice Hall. 
14. 林左裕Tsoyu Calvin LIN (2009)。 Financial Derivatives衍生性金融商品。 智勝書局Bestwise Publishing Co. 
J. of Real Estate Finance and Economics, J. of Real Estate Research, J. of Real Estate Literature, Real Estate Economics, J. of Money, Credit and Banking, J. of Housing Research, J. of Housing Economics J. of Finance, J. of Fixed Income, The Review of Financial Studies, J. of Futures Markets, J. of Housing Research Urban Studies, Housing Study, Habitat International, Regional Science and Urban Economics “Economics Review” by the Fed. Reserve Bank in the US, J. of Real Estate Portfolio Management Review of Financial Economics, Housing Finance International, International Real Estate Review, Pacific-Basin Finance Journal, Journal of Asian-Pacific Economy, Wall Street Journal, **The Economists** , Business Week, "House Fun" web article.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:As instructed in the class. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Wed.. after class or by appointment / Classroom or #605, 6F of the General bldg/ 
Introduction of Professor Tsoyu Calvin LIN 
Professor Tsoyu Calvin LIN(林左裕教授)
Current position:
Distinguished Professor, Department of Land Economics, NCCU.
Fulbright Campus Advisor, NCCU.
Experiences:
Vice President of NCCU, Office of General Affairs.
Deputy Dean, College of Social Sciences
Director, Int’l Master’s Program in Asia-Pacific Studies (IMAS)
Professor, “Futures and Options”, Nationwide Education TV channel (ChungHua TV), Taiwan.
Ph.D., (1996) Texas A&M University, College Station, TX, USA
Dept. of Urban and Regional Science (major in Real Estate and Housing Finance),
Board Director of the Asian Real Estate Society (AsRES)
Erasmus + Visiting Professor of EU, UMCS, Poland.
Fulbright visiting professor, Fisher Real Estate and Urban Economics Center, Hass Business School, UC Berkeley, C.A., USA.'
Visiting Professor, Erasmus + Program of EU, to the **Maria Curie-Sklodowska University**
(UMCS) in Poland.
Visiting Disctiguished professor, Economic Research Center, College of Economics, Nagoya University, Japan.
Visiting professor, College of Business, Appalachian State University, N.C., USA.
Visiting professor, College of Management, Beijing University of Technology, China.
Professor, International Certified Financial Planner (CFP)
Member of Consulting Committee: Taipei MRT Land Development Funds, Taiwan Labor Insurance Funds Management, Taipei District Court on Real Estate Appraisal, ChungHwa Postal Funds for real estate investment…
Professor Contact:
Tel: (O)+886-2-29393091 ext. 50605 ;
Email: tsoyulin@nccu.edu.tw, or calvinlin168@gmail.com
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
graduate students from the Dept. of Land Econ. 
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
