國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：中國經濟發展
#####  Course Name: Chinese Economic Development
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：266913001 Course No.266913001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_5_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：應社碩一、應社碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program of Applied Economics and Social Development/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：王信實、李浩仲、莊奕琦 Instructor: WANG SHINN-SHYR/LI HAO-CHUNG/CHUANG YIH-CHYI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12 


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course provides a comprehensive overview of the modern Chinese economy, and discusses several important aspects of the Chinese growth and development, including the major shifts in economic philosophy through time, the macroeconomic trends, agriculture and the rural industrialization, the economic development of urban areas, international trade and foreign investment, as well as the economic challenges facing China today.
This course will blend formal lectures with ample discussions on contemporary events, and students get to choose a topic for themselves to delve into. The course will introduce both the theoretical and empirical aspects of economic matters. The goal of the course is to prepare students with sufficient background knowledge about Chinese economy, and also to kick start/complement their own research in related areas. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備卓越專業知識
  * B. 具備獨立研究能力
  * C. 具備學術發表能力
  * D. 具備國際參與能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
1. To get students familiar with the important aspects and rationales of the Chinese growth and development.   
2. To motivate students to become interested in studies of Chinese Economic Development.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
There are three lecturers for this course. The lecturer for each part of the course is given in parenthesis: Yih-Chyi Chuang (C), Hao-Chung Li (L), and Shinn-Shyr Wang (W).
  1. Introduction to the Course--1 week (C, L, W)
  2. Introduction to the Chinese Economy--2 weeks (L, W) 
    1. Chinese economy before 1949
    2. Socialist era 1949-1978
    3. Market transition since 1978
  3. Patterns of Growth and Development--4 weeks (C) 
    1. Growth and structural change
    2. Population growth and one-child policy
    3. Labor and human capital
    4. Incomes, inequality, and poverty
    5. Chinese consumption pattern
    6. Macroeconomic trends and cycles
    7. Rebalancing China's economic growth
  4. Term paper proposal--2 weeks
  5. The Rural and Urban Economy--3 weeks (L, W) 
    1. The urban-rural divide
    2. Rural agriculture and industrialization
    3. Urban ownership and governance
    4. Urban structural change: industry, energy, and infrastructure
    5. Chinese manufacturing competitiveness
    6. Environmental cost of Chinese growth
    7. Technology policy and the knowledge-based economy
    8. Chinese financial system
  6. China and the World Economy--2 weeks (L) 
    1. International trade
    2. Foreign investment
    3. Impacts of US-China trade war
  7. Term Paper Presentation --2 weeks (L, W)


Expected workload per week:  
3.0 In-class Hours  
4.5 Outside-of-class Hours
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
In-lecture discussions on current issues in China 30%   
Final project proposal (presentation and discussion) 30%   
Final project (term paper) 40%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
The main textbooks for this course are   
Naughton, Barry (2016). “The Chinese Economy: Adaptation and Growth.” MIT Press. (Electronic resource available at the library.)  
We will also discuss articles from Economist and Financial Times as well as some contemporary books on the Chinese economy.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Online sessions if physical ones not available: 
https://meet.google.com/esq-frux-oan

```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Wednesday, 14:00­-16:00, 15F/16F, South Wing, General College Building
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
