國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：商用中級口語訓練
#####  Course Name: Intermediate Business Oral Training
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：300748021 Course No.300748021


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：商院選修 Course Department:Commerce/B/0 
  * 授課老師：鄺慧琪 Instructor: KWONG WAI-KEI 
  * 先修科目：[ 商用寫作與口語訓練（一）(單學期)(修習且及格)] 及 [ 商用寫作與口語訓練（二）(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([] AND [])
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
Intermediate Business Oral Training course gives students an insight of the business world by exposing them to knowledge of the English language skills, especially in the speaking skill area, necessary to succeed. With English being the language of international communication, students will be trained to communicate clearly and coherently in English to be globally competitive.
Much class time will be devoted to student-led activities allowing students to speak up in a controlled, business-like yet relaxed atmosphere. Materials will first be introduced in the general context before being framed for business situations. In and outside of class, students will have the opportunity to work individually to foster learner autonomy; they will also work in groups to develop the concept of teamwork and justify the significance of team spirit to boosting productivity.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course aims to share tacit knowledge that allows students to develop their English oral skills for use in a business context. Students will learn the do's and don'ts of speaking behavior in the business world for the purpose of presenting themselves in a professional manner.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Tentative Schedule: (subject to change according to students' progress/needs)
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  Course Introduction; Business Introduction; Business Card Etiquette |  Course Introduction; Introducing Yourself Professionally |  What is Intermediate Business Oral Training? |  3 |  2  
2 |  Business Introduction; Teamwork in Business |  Introducing Others Professionally |  Fostering Team Spirit |  3 |  3  
3 |  Winning Job Interview Skills |  Tools to Succeed |  Acing Interviews |  3 |  3  
4 |  Office Conflict Resolution; Team Building |  Identifying and Solving Conflict |  Dealing with “Office Politics” |  3 |  3  
5 |  Workplace Telephoning in English; Team Building |  Telephone Manners |  Being Professional on the Phone |  3 |  3  
6 |  ETP-TED Talk #1; Impromptu Speech |  Speaking to Express & Impress |  Speaking to Express & Impress |  3 |  3  
7 |  ETP-TED Talk #2; Fun Debate |  Listening Skills Practice |  Listening to Understand & Respond |  3 |  3  
8 |  ~ Individual Mock Interview ~ |  Getting Ready for Interviews |  Building Confidence |  3 |  3  
9 |  The Power of Advertising; The Art of Debating; Team Building |  Advertising Language |  Speaking To Sell |  3 |  3  
10 |  ETP-TED Talk #3; Debate Preparation: structuring an argument; Team Building |  Speaking to Persuade |  Speaking to Defend |  3 |  3  
11 |  ETP-TED Talk #4; Working with Cultural Diversity |  Cultural Exchange |  Avoiding Cultural Taboos |  3 |  3  
12 |  ETP-TED Talk #5; Debate Preparation: rebuttal basics; Team Building |  Rebutting Your Opponents |  Being Objective and Firm |  3 |  3  
13 |  The Grand Debate; Fine Dining Etiquette |  “Arguing” to Win |  Eating with Grace |  3 |  3  
14 |  Marketing Intangibles; Team Building  |  To Be a Cash Cow |  Boosting Sales |  3 |  3  
15 |  Preparing to Market; Team Building |  Marketing with Power |  Speaking to Market |  3 |  3  
16 |  Marketing Your Service |  Securing Clients |  Closing the Deal |  3 |  3  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_10%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
100% of English is used for all instructor's lectures and in-class activities. Students are expected to take an active role in all class activities to maximize their learning opportunities. A student-centered approach will be adopted to allow students to make full use of class time to achieve their English-learning goals and the course learning objectives.
Students should attend all classes and come to class on time and prepared. Attendance is taken seriously. No make-up work is allowed. Late work will NOT be accepted. Students who "need" to be absent or late for class should notify the instructor with a valid reason via email at least 2 days in advance. 
4% Attendance 
6% Participation 
30% In-class Activities & Assignments
16% ETP-TED Talk
6% Team Building
16% The Grand Debate
22% Course Project 
  
Students missing 2 or more class meetings will receive a failing grade for the course. Students who do not complete the Course Project are not allowed to pass the course.
Cell phones and other electronic devices are not allowed to be used in class unless given permission by the instructor to do so. Failure to abide by this class rule will result in automatic failure for the course.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Supplementary materials will be provided.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Students are allowed to use AI tools to assist with their work only with permission from the instructor. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
