國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：商用寫作與口語訓練（一）
#####  Course Name: Business Writing and Oral Training I
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：300750021 Course No.300750021


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：商院選修 Course Department:Commerce/B/0 
  * 授課老師：楊健威 Instructor: YANG CHIEN-WEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
**Course Outline:**
This course provides freshmen with sufficient training in speaking and writing and develops teamwork skills. It aims to enhance students’ ability to express ideas and respond to common subjects in life and to improve students’ basic written communication skills. 
The course aims to help students to acquire essential oral and written communication skills they can apply in daily communication. The oral training will cover pronunciation, articulation, and speech delivery, and the writing training focuses on the basic format and structure of a paragraph, knowledge of collocation, and applications of grammatical rules. Aside from individual tasks, students are required to work as a pair or a team and assume leading and supporting roles in different tasks.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
**Course Objectives:**
Upon finishing the course, students are expected to:
1. Enhance oral fluency and articulation
2. Learn oral presentation skills
3. Produce unified and coherent essays and succeed in collaborative writing
4. Complete a team-based multi-skill oral project in reflection on the course topics
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Course Schedule**
*** The schedule is flexible, and further changes will be announced in advance.**
**Prw: preview/FP: Final project**
**Weekly Session** |  **Topic** |  **Preview/Task/Project Progress** |  **Time Investment** **(Unit: Hours)**  
---|---|---|---  
**1 st** |  Course Introduction; Warmers; Discussion Skills: Personality through Horoscope |  1. Prw. handout 1 2.**Choose the topic of music mini-presentation** |  1  
**2nd** |  Describing Appearance; Writing Skills I: Paragraph Structure & the Topic Sentence: A Recap ***The music mini-presentation starts in this week** |  1. Topic Sentence Practice 2. Prw. handout 2 |  2  
**3rd** |  Smartphone Addiction: Vocabulary-Builder; Stressing in Speaking; Pronunciation Drill I |  1. Writing Task 1: Using Topic Sentences 2. Prepare Pair Task |  2  
**4th** |  Pair Task: Stressing Lip Sync; Speaking Drills I |  1. Prw. Handout 4 |  1  
**5 th ** |  Oral Presentation Skills I; Analytical Reading and A Socratic Seminar: Reading a Narrative I |  1. Prepare a Mini-presentation 2. **Confirm the topic of the Individual Oral Presentation** |  2  
**6 th** |  Analytical Reading and A Socratic Seminar: Reading a Narrative II Writing Skills II: Essay Structure and the Introductory Paragraph | 
  1. Reporting the Individual Oral Presentation Topic

|  2  
**7 th** |  Oral Presentation Skills II; Writing Skills II: Paragraph Development and Writing a Personal Narrative | 
  1. Writing Task 2:My Hero/Heroine (1st draft)

|  2-3  
**8 th** |  **Mid-term Week** Film Screening & Opinion Sharing |  1. Prepare for the Oral Presentation 2. Writing Task 2: Forum Response |  0.5-1  
**9th** |  **Mini-Individual Oral Presentation: My Favorite** **Group I** |  |  2  
**10 th ** |  **Mini-Individual Oral Presentation: My Favorite** **Group II** Final Project (FP) Announcement & Team-building |  2. Prw. Handout 3  |  3 or more  
**11th** |  Screenplay Drafting; Sample mini-film Discussion |  1. Writing Task 3: Drafting and revising the Screenplay 2. Writing Task 4: revising and finalizing the screenplay |  4 or more  
**12th** |  **FP Work Week** : Film shooting |  1. FP Preparation |  4 or more  
**13 th** |  Language Functions: Giving and Taking Advice Mini-Debate Skiklls I  * **Setting up the Premiere Organizing Committee** | 
  1. Mini-Debate Preperation

|  2  
**14th** |  Mini-Debate: Uniform or Unicorn?; Writing Skills III: Common Writing Errors and Use of Punctuations  |  1. Prw. Handout 5 |  1  
**15 th** |  **Buffer Week/** |  1. FP Preparation |  Pedning  
**16 h** |  **Micro Film Premiere & Reception** **(*Online premiere if needed)** |  1. Submitting the film file 2. Voting for and commenting on your Favorite micro films |  N/A  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_25%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_10%_
####  其他： Others: Learning Feedback 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Teaching Methodology:**
  1. Lecture 
  2. Digital Learning Assistance
  3. In-class Activities: Interactive Activities, Role-play, Simulation Practice
  4. Oral Presentation and the Instructor’s and Peer’s Feedback
  5. Audio-visual Aids: videotaping, displaying clips and recordings


**Class Leaders and Organizing Committee:**
The course will need one or two **class leaders** and voluntary members of **the premier organizing committee**. Contributors will receive bonus grades depending on the extent of their contribution. The class leader’s responsibilities will include:  
1. Operating the video-camera and the electronic devices during the individual oral presentation weeks  
2. Managing the whiteboard on a weekly basis  
3. Picking up handouts from the OIP  
4. Other duties to be discussed
The duties of the**premier organizing committee** will be announced and sign-up will take place in **week 13 or earlier**.
**Course Requirements:**
  1. **English** is the instruction language in this course, and students are expected to use English only when communicating with other students and the instructor. 
  2. Students are expected to show **strong motivation** by actively participating in in-class activities and tasks and preview assigned chapters and materials. 
  3. **EVERY** student will have the opportunity to share a favorite song or a piece of music at the beginning of each weekly session.
  4. Full attendance is **strictly required**. Two absences or more without proper reasons will result in failure to pass.
  5. **Punctuality** is similarly required. Lateness for over 5 minutes may count for a half absence.
  6. The microfilm premiere will take place during the final week, and full attendance is strictly required.
  7. If you will miss a class, please inform the instructor **in advance**. Your request for the instructor’s permission for leave**must** be made in **written** form. Use e-mail to inform the instructor at least ONE day prior to the class; in cases of emergency, notify the instructor through e-mail before the class starts. **DO NOT** ask your classmate to pass the request.
  8. Hand in the final draft and the visual aid file one week ahead of each presentation. No delay is acceptable without the instructor being informed. 
  9. All written assignments will have to be submitted on time; the total grade of the assignment will be deducted by 10 percent in cases of late submission. 
  10. **A Business suit** is required for the oral presentation weeks. Please start preparing a business suit at the beginning of the semester. More details will be explained in class.
  11. Please visit the Moodle platform on the weekly basis or one day before the class.
  12. If in-person teaching is discouraged due to health concerns, the class will be offered remotely through Webex.


**Grading Policy:**
*Bonus grade points are awarded based on performances in in-class activities and tasks. Opportunities for bonus grades will be announced in advance.
**Rubrics:**
**A+** |  Fluent in speech; effective stressing and natural intonations; proper pronunciation; a clear focus and complete structure of the content; full application of the skills introduced; proper standing posture and use of hand gestures   
---|---  
**A** |  Almost fluent in speech; attempted stressing and natural intonations; proper pronunciation of most of the words; a clear focus and complete structure of the content; use of the skills introduced; proper standing posture and attempted use of hand gestures  
**B+** |  Near fluent in speech with breaks; lack of obvious stressing and in sufficient variations in intonations; proper pronunciation of most of the words; lack of a focus in content; use of the skills introduced; infirm standing posture and attempted use of hand gestures  
**B-** |  Lack of fluency; lack of obvious stressing and in sufficient variations in intonations; mispronunciations of keywords; lack of a focus in content; lack of application of skills; infirm standing posture and attempted use of hand gestures  
**C** |  Failure to reach expected performance in every aspect; improved performance required  
**F** |  Show little or no motivation; lack of preparation or essential skills; miss the assignment or task without proper reason  
*Any changes to the grading policy will be announced in class
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Textbook:**
The course does not require a textbook. Course materials will be prepared by the instructor and distributed during the class or through the Moodle platform. 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:The use of AI-assisted tools in writing revision will be introduced in lessons on paragraph developments.  Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
**Office** : Room 507, Center for Creativity and Innovation Studies
E-mail: william@nccu.edu.tw
Office hours: by appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
**TBA**
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
