國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：商用進階口語實務
#####  Course Name: Advanced Business Oral Training
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：300746021 Course No.300746021


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：商院選修 Course Department:Commerce/B/0 
  * 授課老師：楊健威 Instructor: YANG CHIEN-WEI 
  * 先修科目：[ 商用寫作與口語訓練（一）(單學期)(修習且及格)] 及 [ 商用寫作與口語訓練（二）(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([] AND [])
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
**Course Outline**
The course is divided into **two modules** : **career preparedness** and essential **business communication skills**. In the first module, students will begin their career prospecting project by conducting independent research on the fields of professions they are interested in. Students then learn to write and revise a résumé/CV and related job search documents in a panel discussion with the instructor, which is followed by job interview preparation. We will also discuss how to prepare and produce a video CV to promote oneself on the job market, which is gaining in popularity now. In the second module, we focus on essential language skills in formal business meetings and negotiations, which student will apply in an A&M simulation project to negotiate an acquisition or merger proposal based upon research on the parties/entities involved.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
**Course Objectives**
The course aims to help students achieve the following goals upon finishing the course:
1. be well-equipped with essential English language skills in job hunting
2. be able to communicate effectively in a business meeting and negotiation
3. be able to promote oneself as a job candidate through digital media 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Course Schedule**
*** This version is tentative and can undergo further changes.**
**Prw: preview/FP: Final project**
**Session** |  **Topic** |  **Activities and Assignments** |  **Invested Time**  
---|---|---|---  
**1** |  Course Introduction; Warmers; Career Prospecting (CP) Phase 1 **Résum****é and CV** : format and language 1 |  Independent research: Career Prospecting 1 |  4 or above  
**2** |  CP Phase 2 **Résum****é and CV** : format and language 2 |  Sample Discussion 1; Assignment 1: Résumé and CV draft |  4 or above  
**3** |  CP Phase 3: Roundtable Discussion (Group 1) **Covering Letter** (CL) and **Follow-up Letter** (FUL) |  Sample Discussion 2; CL and FUL draft Submission of Assignment 1 |  4 or above  
**4** |  CP Phase 3: Roundtable Discussion (Group 2) Job Interview: Pre-interview Preparation |  Experience sharing; Self-Intro. Practice Project I: Job interview preparation i  |  4 or above  
**5** |  **Job Interview** : Skills and Trouble-Shooting II; Interview Types and Question Bank |  Tricky Question Practice; Project I: Job interview preparation ii |  4 or above  
**6** |  **Case Interview & Feedback** 100-word Personal Statement (Pers.S.) |  Project I: Job interview preparation iii |  4 or above  
**7** |  Job Interview Simulation I & Peer Feedback |  Assignment 2: Self-Evaluation  |  4 or above  
**8** |  Job Interview Simulation II & Peer Feedback |  Assignment 2: Self-Evaluation |  4 or above  
**9** |  Career Workshop 1 Video CV: Introduction & Samples ***The Mock Individual Interview on a Saturday** **(To be Confirmed)** |  Video CV proposal |  5 or above  
**10** |  **Video CV** : Work Week |  Video CV Production |  5 or above  
**11** |  **Video CV Showcase & Feedback** |  Assignment 3: Peer-feedback |  4 or above  
**12** |  **Business Meeting** : chairing & essential business vocabulary II |  In-class Practice; Project II preparation: An A&M meeting |  4 or above  
**13** |  Business Meeting: handling confrontations & clarification **Negotiation in Business** : Introduction & bargaining |  Project II preparation: An A&M meeting Project II preparation: choosing the role |  4 or above  
**14** |  **Negotiation in Business** : Language and Skills Sample Videos Research for Negotiation |  Sample Discussion; scenario practice; Project II preparation: position statement preparation |  4 or above  
**15** |  Negotiation in Business: Probing & making counteroffers |  scenario practice; Project II preparation: position statement preparation |  5 or above  
**16** |  **The M &A Meeting Simulation** |  Assignment 4: Peer Evaluation |  4 or above  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_15%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_20%_
####  其他： Others: Simulation Practice 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Course Requirements**
  1. **Regular attendance** is strictly required. Absence from TWO weekly sessions will result in failure to pass. 
  2. In case of health concern, the course can be offered online. During online class meetings, all the rules still apply. 
  3. When the course is required to be offered online, students are expected to continue participating in class through video conferencing software, such as Webex, and virtual classroom, such as Moodle. Further details will be announced on Moodle when necessary.
  4. Attendees of online class should leave the video camera on during the class and become familiar with the operation of video conference software.
  5. We will have a **Moodle** platform for this course, so please visit it on the weekly basis and on the day before the class in case you miss important announcements.
  6. Those who need to ask for leaves should notify the instructor through **e-mail** in advance. DO NOT simply ask your classmate to pass the request.
  7. Please identify yourself at the beginning of your e-mail message. Also, write your email message in English only.
  8. **Punctuality** is essential; Lateness of over FIVE minutes will be counted as a half absence. 
  9. Delayed or missed assignments are forbidden. Make-up assignments are downgraded by **10 percen** t. 
  10. Some oral tasks require drafts, which should be completed in advance and submitted in class.
  11. The draft and visual aids file of each task **MUST** be submitted at the time the instructor specifies. Late submission will result in grade deductions of 5 to 20 percent.
  12. Using **AI-assisted tools** wisely when completing written assignments is allowed. We will discuss how to use AI-assisted tools to improve writing quality and speaking output.
  13. Students are expected to preview the course materials and make full preparation for each task.
  14. The mock job interview will be held on a **Saturday morning**. Attendance is strictly required.
  15. **Business suits** are required for mock interviews and mock negotiations.
  16. Every student is expected to attend the **LAST** weekly session in the 17th week; No leave nor absence is excusable.
  17. Those who voluntarily take on responsibilities or perform well in class can be awarded **bonus points** ; such opportunities will be announced in class.


**Assessment**
**Class Participation: 35%** |  Attendance |  **10%**  
---|---|---  
Pair Work & Simulation Practice (5) |  **25%**  
**Assignments: 15%** |  Pair and Team Assignments (3) |  **15%**  
**Projects: 50 %** |  Business Brief |  **25%**  
Policy Debate |  **25%**  
***Bonus Points** |  Class Leader, Team Leader, or Competition Winners |  2-5%  
**Grading Rubrics**
**A+/5** |  Very fluent speech; natural intonations and standard pronunciation; organized, coherent, and well-supported content; able to form and elaborate personal perspective; very few usage errors; full cooperation with other team members; flawless body languages  
---|---  
**A- →A** **/4→4.5** |  Near fluent speech; variations in intonations and almost standard pronunciation with a few errors; organized, coherent, and well-supported content; showing attempt to form personal perspective; some usage errors; full cooperation with other team members; near perfect body languages with a few   
**B→B+** **/3.5→4** |  Near fluent speech but with some breaks; intonations flat and almost standard pronunciation with a few errors; less organized, coherent, or supported content; unclear personal perspective; some common usage errors; insufficient team match; a few adaptive gestures  
**C→B-/2.5→3.5** |  Speech lacking fluency with breaks; intonations lacking in variations and major mispronunciations; content requires further support and incomplete in structure; lack of personal perspective; more than average number of usage errors; insufficient team match; unnatural body language  
**D/1.5→2.5** |  Failure to reach the required standard in most of the aspects of the project; required to improve the overall performance in the second attempt   
**F/0.5-2** |  Failure to reach the required standard in all of the aspects of the project; failure to submit the work on schedule  
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Textbook:**
All course materials will be distributed in class and offered on Moodle.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:We will discuss how to use AI-assisted tools to improve writing quality and speaking output. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office: Room 507, Center for Creativity and Innovation Studies
E-mail: **william@nccu.edu.tw**
Office hours: by appointment 
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
**TBA**
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
