國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：資訊管理 
#####  Course Name: Management Information Systems
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：300878001 Course No.300878001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_70_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：商院學士 Course Department:Commerce/B/0 
  * 授課老師：周致遠 Instructor: CHOU CHIH-YUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
Management Information Systems (MIS) provides comprehensive and integrative coverage of essential new technologies, information system applications, and their impact on business models and managerial decision making in an interactive manner. This course is designed to cultivate a deeper understanding of information systems and emerging technologies for business model innovation and information technology (IT) entrepreneurship. The course addresses issues that arise in dealing with management information as a business resource. The course covers both technical and managerial aspects of MIS. Major attention is given to the implications of information systems for achieving competitive advantage.
*** This is the course designed for students****without a MIS major****. If you're pursuing a major in MIS, please find the other two choices with the course number 306047001 or 306047011.**
*** We extremely welcome exchange students to join us!****Proactive course involvement is expected, and cooperation with our local students will benefit your learning experience in Taiwan.**
*** To fit the 16-week school policy,****_we will have a_**** _full THREE-HOUR lecture & TA session_**** _in the first week (Sep 3 & 4, 2025)_****. Manual course adding will be decided during the first or second hour after we finish the course introduction part.**
* (Updated on Jul 04, 2025)
Manual course-adding policy for Fall 2025 MIS course can be found as follows. ALL the students who need manual course-adding should attend our first class to express their intentions.
_**Target numbers of students (subject to change):**_
  * Up to 5-10 students (until the number of 75-80 students). We cannot guarantee the target number due to the availability of classrooms. More spaces may be possible if we have an acceptable classroom to change.


_**Ordered List for Manual Course-adding Priority:**_
  1. Protected list (extremely limited)
  2. NCCU BA senior students or junior ** _foreign_** students (if available)
  3. Exchange students (if available)
  4. NCCU BA students (企業管理學系)
  5. Students from NCCU Museum Program (博物館學分學程), Supply Chain Program (供應鏈管理學程), or Business & Management Program for Students with Specialty of Foreign Languages (外語專長商管學分學程)
  6. Students from University System of Taiwan (NCU, NTHU, & NYCU) (if available)
  7. NCCU College of Commerce ETP students
  8. NCCU College of Commerce students
  9. Other NCCU students
  10. Students from other universities (if available)


The above policy is subject to change.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 奠定相關基礎專業知識(Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.)
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題(Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 溝通能力(Students will acquire professional communication skills.)
  * D. 問題解決能力(Students will acquire problem solving skills.)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The major objectives of this course revolve around helping the student:
  * Understanding and interpreting the main terminology of the information technology field.
  * Analyze the business needs and provide easier, technology-based solutions where appropriate.
  * Be familiar with basic conceptual data design and system development processes.
  * Understand information systems strategies pursued by different companies or countries.
  * Understand how technology can be put to effective use in the global context.
  * Study the various types of electronic commerce applications in use today and likely to emerge in the coming years.
  * Be able to identify opportunities and risks associated with the use of the technology for a firm and develop a use of the technology as a source of sustainable competitive advantage.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Wk.** |  **日期** **Date** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content & Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities & Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation** |  **助教討論課** **TA Sessions** **(Thursdays 4:10-5:10 pm at Yi-Xian Building 5th floor)**  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  Sep 03 |  Introduction to MIS |  Chapter 1~2 |  Lecture & Discussion |  3.0 |  4.5 |  Introduction  
2 |  Sep 10 |  MIS Strategy & Organization |  Chapter 2~3 |  Lecture & Discussion |  3.0 |  4.5 |  Final Project Overview  
3 |  Sep 17 |  Ethical & Social Issues in MIS |  Chapter 4 |  Lecture & Discussion |  3.0 |  4.5 |  Questionnaire Design Basics  
4 |  Sep 24 |  IT Infrastructure & Emerging Technologies |  Chapter 5 |  Lecture & Discussion |  3.0 |  4.5 |  ERD (I)  
5 |  Oct 01 |  Databases Concepts |  Chapter 6 |  Lecture & Discussion |  3.0 |  4.5 |  ERD (II)  
6 |  Oct 08 |  Computer Network |  Chapter 7 |  Lecture & Discussion |  3.0 |  4.5 |  DFD (I)  
7 |  Oct 15 |  IT Security |  Chapter 8 |  Lecture & Discussion |  3.0 |  4.5 |  DFD (II)  
8 |  Oct 22 |  **Midterm Exam** |  Chapter 1~8 |  Exam |  3.0 |  6.0 |  No Session  
9 |  Oct 29 |  Building Information Systems & IS Project Management |  Chapter 13~15 |  Lecture & Discussion |  3.0 |  4.5 |  SQL  
10 |  Nov 05 |  Enterprise Applications |  Chapter 9 |  Lecture & Discussion |  3.0 |  4.5 |  Final Project Discussion  
11 |  Nov 12 |  E-commerce |  Chapter 10 |  Lecture & Discussion |  3.0 |  4.5 |  Final Project Discussion  
12 |  Nov 19 |  Knowledge Management |  Chapter 11 |  Lecture & Discussion |  3.0 |  4.5 |  MIS Project Preview  
13 |  Nov 26 |  Enhancing Decision Making & Global IS Management |  Chapter 12, 15 |  Lecture & Discussion |  3.0 |  4.5 |  MIS Project Observation & Discussion  
14 |  Dec 03 |  **Final Exam** |  Chapter 1~15 |  Exam |  3.0 |  6.0 |  No Session  
15 |  Dec 10 |  **Project Preparation & Consultation** **(Due on Dec 13)** |  Final Project |  Discussion & Consultation |  3.0 |  6.0 |  Final Project Discussion  
16 |  Dec 17 |  **Online Peer Review for Videos**  
**(Online Class)** **(Between-Group & In-Group Peer Reviews Due on Dec 20)** |  Peer Review |  Video Presentation Online |  3.0 |  6.0 |  No Session  
Notes | 
  * The course schedule is subject to change.
  * ALL the students are **_highly encouraged_** to attend the TA sessions. Schedule for TA Sessions will be adjusted if needed.
  * The course is designed for students outside the Department of Management Information Systems. Final grades with detailed comments may be available to all our students by the official due date (Jan 05, 2026, or earlier). Please be aware of the schedule and be patient for the results. Graduate students, senior students, exchange students, or students with scholarships will **NOT** receive early results due to the fair grading process.

  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_55%_
####  講述 Lecture
_15%_
####  討論 Discussion
_15%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_15%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  * **Pop Quizzes (Bonus points, if any), Midterm Exam (25%) & Final Exam (30%):** _Two in-class**open-book** exams_ and _potential in-class _pop_ quizzes (bonus points available)_ will be administered during the semester. If the exam will be missed because of a university-excused absence (and prior notice is provided), the final will be rescheduled by the instructor based on his discretion. The format of the make-up exam may vary from the formats of regularly scheduled exams. The instructor has the sole right to make determinations concerning the potential for make-up exams. _Please make sure that you are able to attend both exams before selecting our course._  

    * **Midterm Exam:** **October 22, 2025** ; Scope: All the materials before Week 8.
    * **Final Exam:** **December 03, 2025** ; Scope: All the materials during the semester.  

  * **Final Project & Homework Assignments (35% + Bonus points, if any):** You will join to a team to work on the project and homework assignments. In the project, you will need to create an IT-related business and analyze your strategy in a given industry/market in the field of Management Information Systems. A late penalty of 20% per 24-hour period will be imposed for projects turned in after the submission time. Saturday and Sunday count as one 24-hour period. The topics of the final project will be introduced in class.  

    * **Video presentation (35%):** You will need to present your findings or thoughts via a recorded **15-minutes video** on our course platform by the assigned submission deadline (**11:59:59 pm on Dec 13, 2025 (Taipei Time)**). Students in the same group will receive the same grade (Students **SHOULD** participate in the group work to receive the grade). _At least_ _**two**_ _students_ in a group should be presenters. More details will be announced during the semester.
      * **Video style:** Any creative formats with introduction on your proposed systems.
        * It could be a **promo-style video** , but please remember to describe in detail on your need analysis and system design. If possible, you are extremely encouraged to show up in the video.
        * It could be a **screen capture recording** , using applications such as Evercam, OBS Studio, Google meet, Cisco Webex, Zoom, Skype, Camtasia, or PowerPoint. If possible, you are extremely encouraged to use an application that also allows for the presenters to be shown.
        * It could be **the combination of the above two options**.
        * Or **any other formats** that will help you express your final project in the pre-recorded 15-minutes video.
      * **Language:** **English ONLY**. You are encouraged to add subtitle in Traditional Chinese or caption in English to help the audience understand your speaking easier.
    * **Between-group peer evaluation (Bonus points available):** After the deadline for presentation video, all the groups will need to conduct between-group peer evaluation. The groups will need to provide comments, suggestions, and ranking for all the other presentations in a survey. We will not let groups know who leaves the comments, so please be free to write anything that might be helpful or critical to your peer groups. __Bonus point(s) will be offered to the groups who**provide excellent comments** and who **get the highest votes** from your peer groups.__ (It is okay to write your comments in either Traditional Chinese or English, but English is preferred if you are giving comments to some groups with English-speaking members.) Please upload the evaluation file you have filled up **by 11:59:59 pm on Dec 20, 2025 (Taipei Time)**.
    * **Homework assignments (Bonus points available):** You may be assigned take-home group assignments in certain classes. Students in the same group will receive the same grade. (Students **SHOULD** participate in the group work to receive the grade.)
  * **Class Participation (10%):** It involves attendance and class participation. The instructor may call on individual students during the class, and their inability to respond with a reasonable answer will adversely affect their class participation grade. For each class, students will be graded on a 0-2 scale: 0 for absence, 1 for presence without constructive participation, and 2 for constructive participation. __Pop quizzes or random calls may be conducted to support the class participation.__
  * **In-Group Peer Evaluation (Bonus or Minus points available):** You will need to provide your job distribution, comments, appraisal, or complaints to your group members, and suggestions to our course in a survey. We will not let other people know who leaves the comments, so please be open and honest to provide your opinions. Points will be cut from your total final score **_up to 60 points_** if you have been complaint by your partners with credible specific reasons. __Bonus point(s) may be offered to the member(s) who**receive outstanding appraisals**.__Otherwise, all your group members will receive the same grade for the group work. (It is okay to write your comments in either Traditional Chinese or English.) Please upload the evaluation file you have filled up **by 11:59:59 pm on Dec 20, 2025 (Taipei Time)**.


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Required Textbook:**
  * _Management Information Systems: Managing the Digital Firm_ by K. C. Laudon and J. P. Laudon, Pearson Education, 17th Edition/Global Edition. (代理商：滄海圖書資訊股份有限公司) (ISBN-13: 978-1292403281 | ISBN-10: 1292403284)
  * (We may adopt newer edition because the 18th Edition/Global Edition may be available in 2025. Further details will be announced in the first week of the semester.)


**References:**
  * _Discovering Computers: Digital Technology, Data, and Devices_ by Jennifer T. Campbell, Mark Ciampa, Steven M. Freund, Steven M. Freund, Susan Sebok, and Misty E. Vermaat, Cengage Learning, 17th Edition/Global Edition. (代理商：華泰文化事業股份有限公司) (ISBN-13: 9780357675366 | ISBN-10: 0357675363)
  * _Modern Database Management_ by J. Hoffer, R. Venkarataman, and H. Top, Pearson FT Press, 13th Edition/Global Edition. (代理商：開發圖書有限公司) (ISBN-13: 978-1292263359 | ISBN-10: 1292263350)
  * _Fundamentals of Database Systems_ by R. Elmasri and S. B. Navathe, Pearson IT Certifica, 7th Edition/Global Edition. (代理商：高立圖書有限公司) (ISBN-13: 978-1292097619 | ISBN-10: 1292097612)
  * _Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach_ by James F. Kurose and Keith W. Ross., Pearson FT Press, 8th Edition/Global Edition. (代理商：全華圖書股份有限公司) (ISBN-13: 9781292405469 | ISBN-10: 1292405465)
  * _Modern Systems Analysis and Design_ by Joseph S Valacich, Joey F. George, and Jeffrey A. Hoffer, Pearson FT Press, 9th Edition/Global Edition. (代理商：華泰文化事業股份有限公司) (ISBN-13: 9780135791578 | ISBN-10: 0135172756) 
  * Online resources which are open available to the public, including news, forums, debates, figures, videos, articles, games, laws and regulations, websites and platforms, mobile applications, generative artificial intelligence applications, etc.


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Students are encouraged to use GenAI tools responsibly when completing projects. However, it is essential that students understand the potential risks. Students remain accountable for all content. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Course platform: Moodle
https://moodle45.nccu.edu.tw/course/view.php?id=9623
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
  * **Office Location:** College of Commerce Building 12th floor 261259
  * **Office Hours:** by appointment


###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
To help students develop their ideas on the project step-by-step, a weekly recitation/discussion TA class will be offered (**on Thursdays 4:10-5:10 pm** at Yi-Xian Building 5th floor MIS Computer Classroom). Students are **highly encouraged** to attend the TA class. Although participation will not be counted, worksheets and tips provided in the TA class may be highly beneficial to the final project (which counts for 35 points) and exams. Bonus points may be offered.
Teaching Assistants:
  * Meng Xuan Wu
  * Ling Pei Huang
  * Grand Wang


Discussion Sessions
  * Time: **Thursdays 4:10-5:10 pm**
  * Location: Yi-Xian Building 5th floor Computer Classroom


The duties of the teaching assistant include lecture assistance, student communication, exam proctoring, e-learning platform design & maintenance, data collection & organization, and discussion sessions / computer lab preparation.
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
