國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：菁英商務英語: 提案與談判技巧
#####  Course Name: Elite Business English: Making proposals and Negotiation Skills
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：301780001 Course No.301780001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國貿二甲、國貿二乙 Course Department:International Business/B/2 
  * 授課老師：古如君 Instructor: KU JU-CHUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二78 Session: tue16-18


##  課程簡介Course Description
Negotiation has been defined as the art of letting the other person have it your way! Can you get the deal you want whilst making your opponent feel the same? 
This course is composed of 8 modules which provide a wide spectrum of coverage for those who seek excellence in both negotiation skills as well as in business English skills. 
What is the worst thing you can do to a negotiator? What does grammar have to do with business etiquette of diplomacy? What is the difference between negotiating positions and interests? And what are the six principles of persuasion you should follow to make any negotiator much more likely to say yes? 
You will discover the answers to these and many other questions about international negotiations by taking part in some challenging role plays and skill-building games, and by practicing the art of asking probing questions and of disagreeing without being too direct. 
In this course you will know when to take the lead and when to wait and see what the other side offers first. You will also learn how to decode typical body language signals, defend yourself against unethical tactics and boost your own persuasiveness. 
Meanwhile, the issue of cultural differences will be raised as well to bring up learners’ awareness on how other cultures may have an impact on their approaches to international business situations.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業知識之理論基礎 (Theoretical foundations of professional knowledge)
  * B. 理解與辦別道德、社會責任與永續議題To understand and identify ethical, socially responsible, and sustainability issues
  * C. 溝通能力Communication skills
  * D. 問題解決能力Problem-solving skills
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力Teamwork and leadership skills


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is designated to develop excellence in international business negotiations skills and to improve your command of the formal business English you need to negotiate skillfully and fluently.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  Course Introduction  
2 |  Seven stages of a internatinal business and identify three types of international business cultures: Fact Culture, People Culture, and Trust Culture  |  Unit 1A: |  p.80 review p7 three broad cultural types |  2 |  1  
3 |  Preparing to negotiate: One on one negotiation or team negotiation? |  Unit 1B: |  p.9 negotiating as a team group discussion and presentation on pros and cons analysis on team negotiation and one-on one deal |  2 |  1  
4 |  Relationship-building: seven principles of building a good rapport. |  Unit 2A |  p.81, 87, 103 group work: select your dream team and prepare PPT(not more than 5 slides) for group oral presentation next class |  2 |  1  
5 |  Relationship-building Establishing a procedure |  Unit 2B Group presentation on the selection of dream team & rationales behind the choice Unit 3A |  p.84 |  2 |  1  
6 |  Establishing a procedure The proposal stage |  Unit 3B Unit 4A |  p.85 p.86 |  2 |  1  
7 |  The proposal stage |  Unit 4B |  p.87. p.104 |  2 |  1  
8 |  Midterm exam |  |  |  |   
9 |  Questioning techniques |  Unit 5A |  p.89 |  2 |  1  
10 |  Questioning techniques |  Unit 5B |  p.90, p.105 |  2 |  1  
11 |  Exploring interests |  Unit 6A |  p.91, p.96 |  2 |  1  
12 |  Exploring interests |  Unit 6B |  |  2 |  1  
13 |  The bargaining zone |  Unit 7A Unit 7B |  p.92, p.106 p.94, p.108 |  2 |  1  
14 |  The bargaining zone Handling breakdowns |  Unit 7C Unit 9A |  p.33 part 3-4 |  2 |  1  
15 |  Final presentation : pair-up to role play business negotiation  
16 |  Final presentation : pair-up to role play business negotiation  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_75%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_15%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**POLICIES FOR THE USE OF Generative AI IN COURSES**
**The assessment of this course looks at students' the originality, innovative ideas, critical thinking and analytical skills, language fluency and above all, the disciplined learning attitude and committed attendance throughout the semester. The use of generative AI writing tool (such as ChatGPT, GrammarlyGO, GPT-3, GPT-4, Elicit, BERT, or others) to support you in this course is disallowed as the course focuses on building up students' effective business negotiating strategies and open-ended negotiating language in English to ultimately conclude the deal with desirable and satisfactory results. Innovation, creative ideas, originality and teamwork spirit are highly promoted in the class. Therefore, we expect that all work students submit for this course will be their own. In instances when collaborative work is assigned, we expect for the assignment to list all team members who participated. We specifically forbid the use of ChatGPT or any other generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools at all stages of the work process, including preliminary ones. Violations of this policy will be considered academic misconduct. We draw your attention to the fact that different classes at National Chengchi University could implement different AI policies, and it is the student’s responsibility to conform to expectations for each course.**(resources :https://oue.fas.harvard.edu/ai-guidance )
Attendance, learning attitude, in-class participation and contribution. 20% 
Class activities including pair/group work, discussion, role-play speaking tasks, class presentation: 20% 
Midterm examination: 30% 
Final test: pair-up roleplay negotiation: 30%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Notice!!!**
**Piracy, the act of illegal copying the textbook, is considered an infringement of copyright law in Taiwan. Students are urged to respect intellectual property rights and use only legally authorized textbook. Individuals use unauthorized digital e-book or any form of copying textbook is an act of infringement of intellectual property right and are liable to litigation and should take one's legal consequence.**
**修課學生務必尊重智慧財產權，禁止使用違法複製的教課書，無論複製形式是紙本教材或是電子書，都是違反智慧財產權的行為。倘若使用非法授權的教課書，其行為可能會被追訴的法律侵權責任，由其個人承擔法律責任，****敬請使用合法授權教課書。**
**Textbook:**
**International Negotiations by Mark Powell, Cambridge University Press.**
**ISBN 978-0-521-14992-1**
Reference: 
1.English for Negotiating by Charles Lafond, Sheila Vine, Birgit Welch, Oxford University Press. 
2.English for Specific Purposes by Keith Harding, Oxford University Press. 
3.Getting to say Yes: Negotiating Agreement without Giving In by Roger Fisher and William Ury, Penguin Group. 
4.Getting More: How to Negotiate to Achieve your Goals in the Real World by Stuart Diamond, Crown Business 
5.English for Business Studies: A Course for Business Studies and Economics Students, by Ian Mackenzie, Cambridge University Press 
6 Business Vocabulary in Use by Bill Mascull, Cambridge University. 
7. English for Business Communication, by Simon Sweeney, Cambridge University Press. 
8. Riding the Waves of Culture: Understanding Cultural Diversity in Business. By Nicholas Brealey Publishing Ltd. 1997
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
http://www.cambridge.org/elt/inernationalnegotiations 
http://www.businessculture.com
http:// www.for-a-better-business.com
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
否  No
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment via email cathyku@nccu.edu.tw
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
NIL
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
