國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：網路貿易模擬
#####  Course Name: International Trade Simulation
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：301778001 Course No.301778001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國貿三甲、國貿三乙、國貿四甲、國貿四乙 Course Department:International Business/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：陳富沛、蘇秋錦 Instructor: CHEN PARKER/SU BONNIE 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
Please note ITS course is NOT an EMI course and is conducted in Mandarin.
This is an online interactive simulation course of international trade. Students in NCCU, FSU (Florida State University College of Law) and SUIBE (Shanghai University of International Business & Economics) will simultaneously participate in the simulated trade transactions with one another. Using a web-based software platform designed just for this course, students will play the roles of virtual trading companies in their respective areas and seek to trade goods between Taiwan/USA and Taiwan/Shanghai.
Trade Simulation, Business Review, Quiz and Board Meeting are the four segments of this course.  
  
- **Trade Simulation**
Basically, every 3 students will make up a team and register a virtual company of their own. By browsing the ITS platform, students can be well informed of the domestic and overseas demand and supply, and then to decide what to sell or buy. Facing various situations in the trading environment, students will learn how to acquire competitive advantages, control business risks, so as to maximize trade profits. Gradually, keen market awareness, strong communication skills, good team spirit, rapid response style and logical analysis ability have been trained during the learning-by-doing process. During the simulation, the participants communicate mainly by E-mails with foreign counterparts. Moreover, real-time oral negotiations are conducted via live conference facilities among 3 ends.
  
- **Business Review**
During trade simulation, students will have weekly class meetings with the instructors to summarize and self-assess their own operations. The week's transactions will be reviewed, and any problems that cropped up can be analyzed and solved. Besides, effective communications within the team will also be strengthened. 
-**Quiz**
A couple of quizzes will be held close to the end of the class, so as to find out how much each student has learned from the class.
- **Board Meeting**  
At the end of simulation, students will write working reports according to their business achievements and submit to the board in advance. On the board meeting, students will give presentations to the board directors, which are composed of professional and experienced people from trading industry, and accept their questions and comments.  

###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業知識之理論基礎 (Theoretical foundations of professional knowledge)
  * B. 理解與辦別道德、社會責任與永續議題To understand and identify ethical, socially responsible, and sustainability issues
  * C. 溝通能力Communication skills
  * D. 問題解決能力Problem-solving skills
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力Teamwork and leadership skills


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
A primary objective of the course is to help students learn how to conduct an international trade transaction. To that end, we will take a hands-on approach. Through simulations accessible in a specially-designed internet environment, you will perform all the major tasks of actual international trade transactions, including 1) finding a seller of a product you want to buy, 2) negotiating the terms of the purchase, 3) arranging for financing, shipping, and insurance, and 4) keeping track of the financial effects of the transaction on your company. We also emphasize a problem-solving approach. You will learn to identify risks and challenges and also how to develop strategies to solve them.
Another objective of the course is to introduce you to future clients and contacts. 
FSU and SUIBE students will soon be staff of important companies which engage in foreign trade. Not only will you meet them through this course, you will also get to know them further through weekly contact with them and learn how to engage them effectively. Building such relationships is of crucial importance to international business.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
You will negotiate with students from FSU and SUIBE, as well as other buyers and sellers acted by teachers and/or industrial specialists. Communications between student-run trading companies and their clients, and between students and teachers, can occur anytime, via email and/or other communication apps on hand-held devices. Around twenty half-an-hour sessions totally for live video negotiations between the companies will be held. 
Once the simulation program is up and running, NCCU students will meet each week with one or more of the professors in the teaching team. Here the week’s transactions can be discussed and any problems that you share will be analyzed and solved. 
Each student individually is required to email to Professor Su, and Chen (on the dates indicated in Attachment) a work report (述職報告) and a final report(董事會報告) of his or her trading company’s activities. Each of these reports should summarize the efforts and results of your company as a whole, and also of you individually as a trader. Highlight the challenges you encountered and the strategies you used to overcome them, with respect to each of the categories you are graded on, as listed above. You are also required to participate, together with the team from your company, in one to three live video negotiations. These negotiations will be closed to other NCCU students and remain confidential in order to protect your company’s strategies. The final requirement is for each company to give an oral summary, of about 20 minutes in length, of the company’s operations at the end of the semester at our simulated Board meeting.
_Attendance_
What we do in class is crucial to your achieving the goals of the course. For this reason, and in order to comply with the attendance policy of the NCCU, you are expected to attend and participate in each class meeting. **Failure to perform live negotiations or to do an oral report at the board meeting may result in failure of the class****.**
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
_Grading_
Your grade is calculated by combining the following aspects:   
A.**Team** **60%** , including:  
1.Professionalism **20%** :  
-Market awareness and sensitivity 5%  
-Communication and negotiation skills 5%  
-Service consciousness 5%  
-Operation accuracy 5%  
2.Profitability **30%** :  
-Gross profit 15%  
-Number of effective contracts 15%  
3.Working report **10%**  
  
B. **Individual****40%** , including:  
1.In-class discussion performance **10%**  
2.Live negotiation performance **10%**  
3.Board meeting performance **10%**
4.Quiz score **10%**
Communication skills will be judged on 1) the speed of responses to domestic and foreign clients’ requests, and 2) the tone you take with domestic clients in a crisis. Negotiation skills are judged on 1) the clarity and reasonableness of your goals, 2) your success in sticking to those goals, and 3) your success at persuasion. 
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/07/14 20250710 114學年度 ITS 每週課程安排.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
We follow an open-door policy, which means students should feel free to stop by Room 261044, at 09:00~11:30am every Wednesday to discuss the course material. We are also happy to discuss the course material with students in the classroom immediately after class. Students may also email Associate Professor Su at _bo9797_ _@nccu.edu.tw_ , and Associate Professor Chen at _fpchen_ _@nccu.edu.tw_ for any questions. 
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
