國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：菁英商務英語: 團隊領導與商務社交技巧
#####  Course Name: Elite Business English: Team-Building and Socializing Skills
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：301779001 Course No.301779001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國貿二甲、國貿二乙 Course Department:International Business/B/2 
  * 授課老師：古如君 Instructor: KU JU-CHUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二56 Session: tue14-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This is an ESP(English for Specific Purpose) course which provides an interactive, skills-based professional English training necessary in the business world. In this course, various of topics to enhance key communicative and junior managerial skills are introduced to the class. For instance, build rapport, build a team and stimulate morale, business entertainment and small talks, chair and participate a meeting, manage a crisis, handle conflicts, etc. 
In addition, the class aims to promote an open-minded and critical thinking ambience to elicit flows of creative ideas from diverse multi-cultural perspectives. Hence, a good portion of class time is dedicated to group work to elicite ideas and insights on given topics and brainstorming about business dilemmas and decisions in several selected cases.
Thus, students are asked to demonstrate their active participations and class engaging and make contributions to various assigned speaking/discussion/role-play tasks. Proactive learning attitude, disciplined attendance and innovative ideas are not only greatly appreciated and acclaimed but also are essential for those who desire to pass with flying colors.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業知識之理論基礎 (Theoretical foundations of professional knowledge)
  * B. 理解與辦別道德、社會責任與永續議題To understand and identify ethical, socially responsible, and sustainability issues
  * C. 溝通能力Communication skills
  * D. 問題解決能力Problem-solving skills
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力Teamwork and leadership skills


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The course is intended for upper intermediate learners to seek advancement on their communicative and business skills in English. Ultimately, to help learners meet business English proficiency requirement for a junior-managerial position in the globalized world of international business as their career progresses.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**每週課程進度與作業要求** Course Schedule & Requirements  
---  
|  **週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  Course introduction  
2 |  Socializing: how to break the Ice and start a conversation at conference |  Unit 1 |  Role-play Task 1 p.6 |  2 |  1  
3 |  Socializing: how to break the Ice and start a conversation at conference Make a strong start to a presentation |  Unit 1 Unit 2 |  Role-play p.7 speaking practice |  2 |  1  
4 |  Make a strong start to a presentation Build the team: make a contribution and play an active role |  Unit 2 Unit 3 |  Role-play Task 1 p.10 |  2 |  1  
5 |  Build the team: make a contribution and play an active role Teamworking: the stuff team are made of - team meetings and team roles |  Unit 3 Handouts |  Handouts |  2 |  1  
6 | Leadership: management styles, the art of delegation |  Handouts |  Handouts |  2 |  1  
7 |  Leadership : Is leader born or made?  |  Handouts |  Handouts |  2 |  1  
8 |  |  Midterm exam  
---  
|  |  |   
9 |  Socializing: what makes a good host? entertain guests, guide a conversation, tell a story |  Unit 6 |  Task 2 p.31 |  2 |  1  
10 |  Entertain guests, guide a conversation, tell a story Chair a meeting: the function of a chairperson control a meeting, deal with difficult people diplomatically effectively |  Unit 6 Unit 8 |  Role play story-telling  Group Discussion: different type of behavior that a chairperson might have to deal with |  2 |  1  
11 |  Chair a meeting: the function of a chairperson control a meeting, deal with difficult people diplomatically effectively Manage a crisis : prepare an action plan and hold a crisis meeting |  Unit 8 Unit 10 |  Role-play Task 2 p.41 Discussion Task 1 p.49 |  2 |  1  
12 |  Manage a crisis : prepare an action plan and hold a crisis meeting |  Unit 10 |  Role-play hold a crisis meeting |  2 |  1  
13 |  |  Handle conflict and resolve a misunderstanding  
---  
Unit 12 |  Role-play page 59 Task 2  |  2 |  1  
14 | Handle conflict and resolve a misunderstanding |  Unit 12 |  Present Role-play  |  |   
15 |  Final oral presentation |  Individual student oral presentation  
16 |  Final oral presentation |  Individual student report  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_17%_
####  討論 Discussion
_40%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_3%_
####  其他： Others: Moodle 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**POLICIES FOR THE USE OF Generative AI IN COURSES**
The assessment of this course looks at students' the originality, innovative ideas, critical thinking and analytical skills, language fluency and above all, the disciplined learning attitude and committed attendance throughout the semester. The use of generative AI writing tool(such as ChatGPT, GrammarlyGO, GPT-3, GPT-4, Elicit, BERT, or others) to support you in this course is disallowed as the course focuses on building up students' interactive business communicative skills in English ultimately leading to an effective teambuilding skill to motivate team members and create positive vibe to stimulate team morale and momentum. Innovation, creative ideas, originality and teamwork spirit are highly promoted in the class. _Therefore, we expect that all work students submit for this course will be their own. In instances when collaborative work is assigned, we expect for the assignment to list all team members who participated. We specifically forbid the use of ChatGPT or any other generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools at all stages of the work process, including preliminary ones. Violations of this policy will be considered academic misconduct. We draw your attention to the fact that different classes at National Chengchi University could implement different AI policies, and it is the student’s responsibility to conform to expectations for each course._
Attendance and in-class participation and contribution 20% 
Pair/group work and role-play speaking and discussion activities:20% 
Midterm exam: 30% 
Final Oral Presentation: 30% (please refer to the attached file for further instructions on the final presentation requirements)
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Notice!!!**
**Piracy, the act of illegal copying the textbook, is considered an infringement of copyright law in Taiwan. Students are urged to respect intellectual property rights and use only legally authorized textbook. Individuals use unauthorized digital e-book or any form of copying textbook is an act of infringement of intellectual property right and are liable to litigation and should take one's legal consequence.**
**敬告修課學生務必尊重智慧財產權，禁止使用違法複製的教課書，無論複製形式是紙本教材或是電子書，都是違反智慧財產權的行為。倘若使用非法授權的教課書，其行為可能會被追訴的法律侵權責任，由其個人承擔法律責任，敬請使用合法授權教課書。**
Textbook:
Intelligent Business - Skill Book Upper Intermediate Level 
by Christine Johnson & Irene Barrall 
Longman Publisher
References:
  1. English for Business Studies: A course for Business Studies and Economics Students by Ian Mackenzie Cambridge University Press.  
2. English for Business Studies in Higher Education Studies by Carolyn Walker with Paul Harvey Garnet Education 3. Fify Ways to Improve your Business English. By Ken Taylor, Summertown Publishing 2006.  
4. Communicating, speaking and listening to end misunderstanding and promote friendship. By Dale R. Olen, Joda Communications, 1995.  
5. Riding the Waves of Culture: Understanding Cultural Diversity in Business. By Nicholas Brealey Publishing Ltd. 1997  
6. The Fine Art of Small Talk: How to Start a Conversation, Keep it going, Build Rapport – And Leave a Positive Impression. By Debra Fine. Small Talk Press, 2002.  
7. Business Vocabulary in Use by Bill Mascull Cambridge University.  
8. Business Vocabulary in Practice Collins Cobuild.


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
www.intelligent-business.org
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
否  No
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment via email cathyku@nccu.edu.tw
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
NIL
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
