國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：菁英商務英語：簡報與演說技巧
#####  Course Name: Elite Business English: Presentation and Speech Skills
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：301867001 Course No.301867001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國貿二甲、國貿二乙 Course Department:International Business/B/2 
  * 授課老師：古如君 Instructor: KU JU-CHUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三56 Session: wed14-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
If there is one skill, above all others, that will help you stand out in the world of international business, it is the skill of presenting. Undoubtedly, giving presentations in English is now common features of working life. 
Thus, this course is designated to help learners develop their international business skills of presentations in English in a more effective, confident, and professional manner.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業知識之理論基礎 (Theoretical foundations of professional knowledge)
  * B. 理解與辦別道德、社會責任與永續議題To understand and identify ethical, socially responsible, and sustainability issues
  * C. 溝通能力Communication skills
  * D. 問題解決能力Problem-solving skills
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力Teamwork and leadership skills


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
An excellent presenter comes down to 4P: preparation, passion, practice and performance. This course will help you both prepare and perform. By the end of the course, you’ll know how to start and how to finish, what to put in and what to leave out. You’ll have an eye for visuals and an ear for how to use your voice. You’ll have a feel for effective body language and the ability to make facts and figures unforgettable. You’ll learn strategies for handling any questions your audience might throw at you. And you’ll try out a range of dynamic presentation techniques as you develop a style that is uniquely yours.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**每週課程進度與作業要求** Course Schedule & Requirements  
---  
|  **週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  Class Introduction |  |  |  2 |  0  
2 |  Opening and closing |  Unit 1A |  Give an introduction about yourself |  2 |  1  
3 |  Opening and closing |  Unit 1B Closing  Create a loop |  p. 78 Practicing linking the opening and closing to create a loop.  |  2 |  1  
4 |  Smooth structure |  Unit 2A&B |  Pairup to practice signpost language on p.79 |  2 |  1  
5 |  Voice power |  Unit 3A |  p.15, part 7-8 |  2 |  1  
6 |  Voice power Visual Aids |  Unit 3B Unit 4A |  p. 82 Practice delivering a speech adding pause, stress, louder, and quieter voice volumne  666 Rule and 10-20-30 |  2 |  1  
7 |  Visual Aids Facts and figures |  Unit 4B Unit 5A |  The five golden rules in Presentations What slideument might be?  |  2 |  1  
8 | Midterm Oral Exam |  |  |  |   
9 |  Facts and figures |  Unit 5B |  Round figures using approximation words  |  2 |  2  
10 |  Impact techniques |  Unit 8A  Using repetition of sounds. words and phrases to add a dramatic Impact on speech |  rewrite the short presentation extract on p. 88 adding impact technique to it.  |  2 |  1  
11 |  Impact techniques |  Unit 8B rhetorical techniques, groups of three, and a punch line Video: Barack Obama's “Yes we can!” |  rewrite a marketing strategy extract on p.89 imposing impact techques to it.  |  2 |  1  
12 |  Impact techniques |  Unit 8C Simple contrast and opposites Chiasmus Techniques |  Practice adding words of imagery and power to your speech p. 89 |  2 |  1  
13 |  Impact techniques |  Unit 8D a combination of rhetorical techniques  Anaphora Technique |  Practice with a partner using a combination of rhetorical techniques on three movie extracts on p.40 |  2 |  1  
14 |  Body Language |  Unit 9 A |  p.42-43 |  2 |  1  
15 |  Final Oral Presentation |  Individual student oral report   
16 |  Final Oral Presentation |  Individual student oral report   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_60%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_15%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_15%_
####  其他： Others: in-class individual task presentation 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
POLICIES FOR THE USE OF Generative AI IN COURSES 
The assessment of this course looks at students' originality, innovative ideas on how to open up with impact to gain the audience attention and close up with memoral note that resonates in the mind of audience. Language fluency, voice techniques, impact techniques, attention-getters strategies are important parts of performance assessment. And above all, the disciplined learning attitude and committed attendance throughout the semester. The use of generative AI writing tool (such as ChatGPT, GrammarlyGO, GPT-3, GPT-4, Elicit, BERT, or others) to support you in this course is disallowed. Innovation, creative ideas, originality and teamwork spirit are highly promoted in the class. Therefore, we expect that all work students submit for this course will be their own. In instances when collaborative work is assigned, we expect for the assignment to list all team members who participated. We specifically forbid the use of ChatGPT or any other generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools at all stages of the work process, including preliminary ones. Violations of this policy will be considered academic misconduct. We draw your attention to the fact that different classes at National Chengchi University could implement different AI policies, and it is the student’s responsibility to conform to expectations for each course. (resources : https://oue.fas.harvard.edu/ai-guidance )
**Attendance, learning attitude, in-class participation and contribution. 20%**
**Class activities including pair/group work, discussion, voice-technique practicing tasks, individual class short presentation tasks: 20%**
**Midterm Oral Presentation( 3-4 minutes) 25% -****Presenter should cover the following elements:**
**1. Attention-getter**
**2. Open with ABCD or Wise Owl Technique**
**3. Smooth structure with signpost languages**
**4. Closing with memorial note by adopting one of hereafter techniques : a. dramatic summary b. famous wise words c. call for action d. heart-felt message.**
**Final Oral Presentatoin(7-8minutes), 35% -****Presenter should deliver a full complete set of presentation which includes the following elements:**
**1. Attention-getter**
**2. Open with ABCD or Wise Owl Technique**
**3. Main body - logical connected and well-organized contexts**
**4. Smooth structure with signpost languages**
**5. Demonstration of a good voice power : clear articulation and the rise and fall of voice volumn and the use of pause and emphasis.**
**6. Impact Technique**
**7. Closing with memorial note by adopting one of hereafter techniques : a. dramatic summary b. famous wise words c. call for action d. heart-felt message.**
**8. Body language: positive, confident and passionate.**
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Notice!!!**
**Piracy, the act of illegal copying the textbook, is considered an infringement of copyright law in Taiwan. Students are urged to respect intellectual property rights and use only legally authorized textbook. Individuals use unauthorized digital e-book or any form of copying textbook is an act of infringement of intellectual property right and are liable to litigation and should take one's legal consequence.**
**修課學生務必尊重智慧財產權，禁止使用違法複製的教課書，無論複製形式是紙本教材或是電子書，都是違反智慧財產權的行為。倘若使用非法授權的教課書，其行為可能會被追訴的法律侵權責任，由其個人承擔法律責任，敬請使用合法授權教課書。**
**TEXTBOOK:**
Dynamic Presentations
by Mark Powell
Cambridge University Press
ISBN: 978-0-521-15004-0
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
否  No
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment via email cathyku@nccu.edu.tw
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
NIL
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
