國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：固定收益證券：分析與創新 
#####  Course Name: Fixed Income Securities: Analytics and Derivatives
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：301840001 Course No.301840001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國貿三甲、國貿三乙、國貿四甲、國貿四乙 Course Department:International Business/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：傅冶天 Instructor: FU YEE-TIEN 
  * 先修科目：[ 經濟學(單學期)(修習且及格)] 及 [ 財務管理(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([] AND [])
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
The aim of this course is to provide you with an introduction to the valuation of fixed income securities and the management of fixed income investment portfolios. Hedging and speculating the interest rate exposures with financial derivatives of fixed income securities will be studied. Securitization of the pool of mortgage loans will also be studied throughly.
Pre-requisite for Fixed Income Securities: Analytics and Derivatives/固定收益證券：分析與創新: One-Semester (3-unit) undergraduate-level Economics AND One-Semester (3-unit) undergraduate-level Financial Management OR Consent from the Instructor.
The following five modules are carefully covered from Frank Fabozz's Bond Markets, Analysis, and Strategies, Eighth Global Edition:  
Bond Math: CH02, CH03, CH04, CH05  
Bond Basics: CH06, CH07, CH08, CH09  
Mortgages and Mortgage-Backed Securities: CH10, CH11, CH12, CH15  
Bond Portfolio Management: CH22, CH23, CH24, CH25
Bond Derivatives: CH19, CH26, CH27, CH28, CH29  
Binomial Tree Valuation: CH17, CH27, CH28
  
Pre-requisite for Fixed Income Securities: Analytics and Derivatives for Graduate Students 固定收益證券：分析與創新（硏究所）: One-Semester (3-unit) undergraduate-level Economics AND One-Semester (3-unit) undergraduate-level Financial Management OR Consent from the Instructor.
固定收益證券：分析與創新預修科目：三學分之（大學部）經濟學以及三學分之（大學部）財務管理或者是經由老師同意選修。
Maximum Enrollment Limit: 60
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業知識之理論基礎 (Theoretical foundations of professional knowledge)
  * B. 理解與辦別道德、社會責任與永續議題To understand and identify ethical, socially responsible, and sustainability issues
  * C. 溝通能力Communication skills
  * D. 問題解決能力Problem-solving skills
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力Teamwork and leadership skills


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
In their simplest form, fixed income securities are characterized by pre-determined cash-flows that occur at fixed points in time, thus the term "fixed income". Coupon bonds are the most widely recognized fixed income securities. We will start with the basics of bond pricing - the relationship between the price of a bond, measures of return on the bond and measures of risk. We then study mortgage bonds and the securitization of a pool of mortgages; and also the life cycle mortgages. Next, we will discuss the various sectors of the bond market, the types of securities traded and the risks involved in each sector. The tools for the valuation of bonds, fixed income derivatives and credit derivatives will be thoroughly studied in this course. With the building blocks in place, we will next discuss portfolio management strategies and risk management practices.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Spring 2025 Classes will meet on Fridays at Commerce 260509 (a computer classroom).
Student workload expectation (學習投入時間): 3-4.5 hours of self-study per weekly class meeting of 3 hours. That is: Outside-of-class Hours (課程前後) is 3-4.5 per Weekly Class Hours (課堂講授) of 3.
**Weekly Topics**  
**Introduction**  
Week 1 Bond Mathematics
Weeks 2 and 3  
We will examine the relationship between the price and yield of a bond. Measures of risk such as duration and convexity will also be discussed.
  
**Term Structure of Interest Rates**   
Weeks 4 and 5  
We will examine the relationship between yields on bonds of different maturities. We will also attempt to understand the link between interest rates and other economic variables.
  
**Market Sectors**
Week 6 Default-free Bonds  
Week 6 Corporate and Municipal Bonds  
Week 6 Foreign Bonds  
Weeks 7, 8, and 9 Mortgage and Asset-Backed Securities  
The various segments of the market and the characteristics of the securities and the risk of each type of security will be the focus. 
**Valuation: Bonds with Embedded Options + Fixed Income Derivatives**
Weeks 10 and 11 Callable Bonds, Convertible Bonds and Prepayment  
Weeks 12 and 13 Fixed Income Derivatives  
Week 14 Credit Risk and Credit Derivatives  
Most corporate bonds are callable bonds. Mortgages contain a prepayment option. What do these statements mean? How does one evaluate the risks involved? Interest rate derivatives are often used to manage the risk inherent in fixed income portfolios. What are the types of derivative securities available? How are they priced?
  
**Portfolio Management Strategies**
Weeks 15 and 16
What are the typical objectives of portfolio management? What are the risks involved? How are portfolios formed to achieve the objectives? How is performance evaluated?
**Risk Management**
Week 17 Notes on VaR, and Risk Management at LTCM
Financial institutions can greatly increase the level of business that can be supported by a given amount of capital if they can accurately quantify and manage risk.
  
**Class Presentation of Project will start on Week Fifteen for three weeks.**
Each group will have 15/20 minutes to describe their project, after which we will have 5 minutes for questions from the rest of the class - three/four group presentations per session.
**Review/Final Exam**
The final will be handed out two weeks before the last class and will be due in the last class.
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_70%_
####  講述 Lecture
_0%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_30%_
####  其他： Others: Projects 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Assignments: 20%, Midterm Exam: 40%, Final Exam or Final Project: 40%.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Required: Frank Fabozzi, Bond Markets, Analysis and Strategies, 10th Edition, MIT Press, 2021.
Highly Recommended: John Hull, Options, Futures, and Other Derivatives, 11th Edition, ISBN-13: 9781292410654, Prentice-Hall, 2022. (Importer: Yeh-Yeh Book Gallery, Taipei)
Recommended: Simon Benninga. Financial Modeling, 4th Edition, The MIT Press, 2014. ISBN: 978-0-262-02728-1. (Importer: Tung-Hua Book Co., Taipei)
On Course Reserve: Frank Fabozzi: The Handbook of Fixed Income Securities, Ninth Edition (ISBN-13: 9781260473896), McGraw-Hill, Release Date: June 2021.
Books Available at Reserve Desk in Commerce Library for “Fixed Income Securities: Analytics and Derivatives” Course: “https://nccu.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/discovery/fulldisplay?docid=alma991021212559105721&context=U&vid=886NCCU_INST:886NCCU_INST&lang=zh-tw"
https://store.wsj.com/checkout/JIE/US/US/1109300010/create-account?inttrackingCode=aaqu264b&icid=WSJ_ON_ALL_ACQ_NA&n2IKsaD9=n2IKsaD9&Pg9aWOPT=Pg9aWOPT&Cp5dKJWb=Cp5dKJWb&APCc9OU1=APCc9OU1
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Books Available at Reserve Desk in Commerce Library for “Fixed Income Securities: Analytics and Derivatives” Course: "https://nccu.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/discovery/fulldisplay?docid=alma991021212559105721&context=U&vid=886NCCU_INST:886NCCU_INST&lang=zh-tw"

WSJ.com

WorldJournal.com
https://store.wsj.com/checkout/JIE/US/US/1109300010/create-account?inttrackingCode=aaqu264b&icid=WSJ_ON_ALL_ACQ_NA&n2IKsaD9=n2IKsaD9&Pg9aWOPT=Pg9aWOPT&Cp5dKJWb=Cp5dKJWb&APCc9OU1=APCc9OU1

Google: “Yee-Tien Fu Stanford”
Another course offered by Associate Professor Yee-Tien Fu; titled
“International Investments” course had also been offered to Graduate and
Undergraduate scholars under the course title “MS&E247s International
Investments” at Stanford University, School of Engineering, Management
Science and Engineering Department from 1998 to 2012 for 15 years. The
course had great enrollments and the teacher (Visiting Associate Professor Yee-Tien Fu)
had received near-perfect teaching evaluations. The course was also broadcasted 
to many Silicon Valley technology companies and beyond via Stanford Center for Professional
Development (SCPD) from 1998 to 2012. Please Google: “Yee-Tien Fu
Stanford” for more details.
附錄：Google: “Yee-Tien Fu Stanford”

1998-2012 Visiting Associate Professor Yee-Tien Fu, Management Science and Engineering,
School of Engineering,
Stanford University

https://web.stanford.edu/dept/registrar/bulletin_past/bulletin01-02/pdf/
ManagSciEng.pdf
(2001)

https://web.stanford.edu/dept/registrar/bulletin_past/bulletin02-03/pdf/ManagSciEng.pdf
(2002)

https://web.stanford.edu/dept/registrar/bulletin_past/bulletin03-04/pdf/ManagSciEng.pdf
(2003)

https://web.stanford.edu/dept/registrar/bulletin_past/bulletin04-05/pdf/ManagSciEng.pdf
(2004)

https://web.stanford.edu/dept/registrar/bulletin_past/bulletin05-06/pdf/ManagSciEng.pdf
(2005)

https://web.stanford.edu/dept/registrar/bulletin_past/bulletin06-07/pdf/ManagSciEng.pdf
(2006)

https://web.stanford.edu/dept/registrar/bulletin_past/bulletin07-08/pdf/ManagSciEng.pdf
(2007)

https://web.stanford.edu/dept/registrar/bulletin0809/5287.htm
(2008)

https://web.stanford.edu/dept/registrar/bulletin0910/5287.htm
(2009)

https://web.stanford.edu/dept/registrar/bulletin1011/5287.htm
(2010)

https://web.stanford.edu/dept/registrar/bulletin1112/5287.htm
(2011)
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/06/03 114_1 Syllabus of Fixed Income Securities for Undergraduates 114_1 2025 update 0604 2025.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Course instructor will stay in the classroom after classes until all the questions are answered.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA.
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
