國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：Python與機器學習會計應用
#####  Course Name: Using Python and Machine Learning in Accounting
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：303802001 Course No.303802001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_5_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：會計四甲、會計四乙 Course Department:Accounting/B/4 
  * 授課老師：周濟群 Instructor: CHOU CHI-CHUN 
  * 先修科目：[ 商業資料分析基礎：Python （一）(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([])
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12 


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course provides a thorough introduction to machine learning with Python, serving as both a step-by-step tutorial and a lasting reference as you develop your own machine learning systems. It delves into essential supervised learning techniques, covering foundational concepts and practical application of Python libraries to build robust models and applications.
This course includes 8 modules, which requires a total of 48 hours of class meetings over the sixteen-week period. You should plan to devote approximately 12 hours each week to complete the activities and assignments required in this course.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 奠定會計專業知識與能力 (Students will gain professional accounting knowledge in their field. )
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題的能力 (Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 培養口語與寫作表達等溝通能力 (Students are able to express oneself through speaking and writing.)
  * D. 培養問題解決能力 (Students will acquire practical professional skills - problem solving.)
  * E. 培養團隊合作與領導能力 (Students will acquire cooperation and leadership skills.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
We will begin with fundamental machine learning models, such as regression for predicting continuous outcomes, Naive Bayes classifiers, binary logistic classification, and the SVM (support vector machine). Then, we’ll move on to non-parametric models like decision trees and random forests. Additionally, we’ll cover key topics such as data preprocessing, model evaluation, and hyperparameter tuning.
The Python libraries featured in this course include pandas, numpy, matplotlib, and scikit-learn (sklearn). You'll also be introduced to sentiment analysis—a subfield of natural language processing (NLP)—using the nltk library, learning to classify documents with machine learning algorithms.
Students should treat this course as a prerequisite for the upcoming course 「深度學習與大型語言模型之會計應用」 (offered next semester), as it covers the foundational knowledge necessary for understanding deep learning and large language models (LLMs).
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
The following schedule shows topics, readings, and due dates by module (usually two weeks per module). All assignments and activities are subject to change. These changes may be announced at any regularly scheduled class meeting or in the learning management system.
**週次** |  **課程主題** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** |  **教學活動與作業**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Data preprocessing with Python’s pandas (1) |  PDS 1, 2 (and homework) |  Hands-on Python coding with Pandas  
2 |  Data preprocessing with Python’s pandas (2) |  PDS 1, 2 (and homework) |  Hands-on Python coding with Pandas  
3 |  Data preprocessing with Python’s numpy |  PDS 3 (and homework) |  Hands-on Python coding with Numpy  
4 |  Data exploration with Python’s matplotlib |  PDS 4 (and homework) |  Hands-on Python coding with Matplotlib and Seaborn  
5 |  Naive Bayes Model with Python’s sklearn (1) |  PDS 5 (and homework) |  Hands-on Python coding with sklearn’s MultinomialNB  
6 |  Naive Bayes Model with Python’s sklearn (2) |  PDS 5 (and homework) Case 1 – Naive Bayes classification  |  Hands-on Python coding with sklearn’s GaussianNB  
7 |  Regression with Python’s sklearn (1) |  PDS 5 (and homework) PML 9 (and homework) |  Hands-on Python coding with sklearn’s LinearRegression  
8 |  Regression with Python’s sklearn (2) |  PDS 5 (and homework) PML 9 (and homework) Case 1 – Regression with machine learning using synthetic data |  Hands-on Python coding with sklearn’s LinearRegression and Python’s statesmodels  
9 |  Binary Logistic Model from scratch and with Python’s sklearn |  PML 2 and 3 (and homework) |  Maximum Likelihood Estimation (MLE), Information Theory and Logistic Models  
10 |  Binary Logistic Model from scratch and with Python’s sklearn |  PML 2 and 3 (and homework) Case 2 – Logistic classification using the IRIS dataset Group Project Discussion |  Hands-on Python coding with sklearn’s LogisticRegression  
11 |  SVM with Python’s sklearn |  PML 3 (and homework) |  SVM overview and Hands-on Python coding with sklearn’s SVC  
12 |  Decision Trees and Random Forest |  PML 3 (and homework) Case 4 – Decision Trees using financial data |  Python coding with sklearn’s DecisionTreeClassifier and RandomForestClassifier  
13 |  Sentiment Analysis with Python’s sklearn and nltk |  PML 8 (and homework) Case 5 – TFIDF and Sentiment Analysis using the IMDB dataset |  Python coding with sklearn’s TfidfTransformer, nltk’s Stemmer and stopwords  
14 |  Feature Engineering Overview |  PML 5 (and homework) |  Python coding with sklearn’s PCA and make_pipeline   
15 |  Group Project Discussion (1) |  Project Discussion |  Brainstorming  
16 |  Group Project Discussion (2) |  Project Discussion |  Troubleshooting  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_10%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_40%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Homework, Projects, Discussion, and Cases**
Homework, discussion forum posts and cases will be due in the modules shown in the list of Weekly Assignments and Activities. 
**Grade Composition**
Cases (five, 10% each) 50%
Homework and discussion 30%
Term project (groupwork) 20%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Required Textbooks**
_Jake VanderPlas. 2023. Python Data Science Handbook: Essential Tools for Working with Data, 2nd Edition. (PDS)_
_Sebastian Raschka and Vahid Mirjalili. 2019. Python Machine Learning: Machine Learning and Deep Learning with Python, scikit-learn, and TensorFlow 2, 3rd ed. Packt Publishing. (PML)_
**Reference Book**
_Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, and Aaron Courville. 2016. Deep learning. The MIT Press._
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
1.	https://github.com/rasbt/python-machine-learning-book-3rd-edition
2.	https://github.com/jakevdp/PythonDataScienceHandbook
3.	https://www.deeplearningbook.org/

```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
周五10：00至12：00 @商學院261154室
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
