國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：商業資料分析基礎：Python （一）
#####  Course Name: Fundamentals of Business Data Analytics: Python (I)
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：303830001 Course No.303830001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_60_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：會計一甲 Course Department:Accounting/B/1 
  * 授課老師：俞京和 Instructor: YU KYUNGHWA 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course provides an introduction to programming fundamentals and widely used econometric methods using Python—a powerful, open-source language for scientific data analysis. The primary focus is on developing students’ logical reasoning and analytical thinking skills, rather than on programming alone. Hands-on coding exercises during class sessions will help students enhance their logic ability and feel familiar with programming.
The course begins with a basic introduction to Python, including installation and essential functions and methods. It then moves on to data management and analysis using libraries such as NumPy, Pandas, and Seaborn.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 奠定會計專業知識與能力 (Students will gain professional accounting knowledge in their field. )
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題的能力 (Students will understand and be able to identify ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability issues.)
  * C. 培養口語與寫作表達等溝通能力 (Students are able to express oneself through speaking and writing.)
  * D. 培養問題解決能力 (Students will acquire practical professional skills - problem solving.)
  * E. 培養團隊合作與領導能力 (Students will acquire cooperation and leadership skills.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Coding practice is designed to strengthen students’ logical reasoning and analytical thinking. In addition, students will learn fundamental econometric and statistical techniques for data analysis—skills that are highly valuable for future careers in both industry and academic research.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
*** This schedule is temporary and subject to change.**
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  Install JupyterLab Introduction to Python (bring your laptop) |  Teacher's materials  |  In class  |  3 |  1  
2 |  Expression |  Teacher's materials |  In class |  3 |  3  
3 |  Loops and Range |  Teacher's materials |  In class |  3 |  3  
4 |  Function  |  Teacher's materials |  In class |  3 |  3  
5 |  Strings |  Teacher's materials |  In class |  3 |  3  
6 |  Strings Conditional Statement |  Teacher's materials |  In class |  3 |  3  
7 |  Lists |  Teacher's materials |  In class |  3 |  3  
8 |  Tuples, Set, and Bool |  Teacher's materials |  In class |  3 |  3  
9 |  Dictionary  |  Teacher's materials |  In class |  3 |  3  
10 |  Numpy |  Teacher's materials |  In class |  3 |  3  
11 |  Numpy  |  Teacher's materials |  In class |  3 |  3  
12 |  Pandas |  Teacher's materials |  In class |  3 |  3  
13 |  Pandas |  Teacher's materials |  In class |  3 |  3  
14 |  Pandas |  Teacher's materials |  In class |  3 |  3  
15 |  Seaborn |  Teacher's materials |  In class |  3 |  3  
16 |  Final Exam |  Teacher's materials |  In class |  3 |  3  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_50%_
####  其他： Others: Coding practice 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Quiz  |  50%  
---|---  
Final Exam  |  40%  
Homework  Class participation and others |  10%  
**Important Notes:**
**1. Participation** |  Students absent from a class more than three times will receive a “Fail” without notification.   
---|---  
**2. Small Quiz** |  This class does not have a mid-term exam. Instead, a small written quiz or coding exam will be provided for about 20 minutes at the beginning of each class. Questions will be based on the materials taught the previous week.   
**3. Final exam** |  The final exam for the Python coding.   
**< Important Notice >**
Students are required to bring their laptops to the first class, as we will install Anaconda (including JupyterLab) and other necessary packages. Students will use their own laptops in every class.
The final exam will be held on the evening of December 18 or 19, depending on classroom availability. The exact date will be announced soon.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
1. Course materials will be distributed before each topic begins. 
2. Students can find helpful information and lectures on Coursera, edX, or any YouTube channel in their language. 
3. Any books in your language help you learn Python. 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Students may use AI tools for coding practice, but the use of AI is strictly prohibited during quizzes and the final exam. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
E-mail: khyu@g.nccu.edu.tw
Class website: Moodle 
Office Location: 商學院1124
Office hours: by appointment 
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
To be announced 
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
