國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：程式設計一
#####  Course Name: Programming Language I
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：306049011 Course No.306049011


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_2.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_50_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：資管一甲、資管一乙 Course Department:Management Information Systems/B/1 
  * 授課老師：蕭舜文 Instructor: HSIAO SHUN-WEN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二23 Session: tue09-11


##  課程簡介Course Description
Description:   
First programming course for MIS majors, designed for students with little or no programming expe-rience. Emphasizes basic principles and concepts of object-oriented programming using JAVA. Top-ics include classes, interfaces, operators, program control, arrays, testing, debugging, inheritance, and polymorphism; Techniques for simplifying the programming process and improving code quality; Features activity-based learning with ample opportunities to implement interesting programs. 
Keys to success:   
Success is much more dependent on personal discipline than programming experience or raw intellect. There is a high probability of earning a B or higher if you do the following: Approach the course with the attitude and work ethic of an IT professional; Prepare for and attend every class; Start assignments early and fulfill all requirements. You should allocate 10 hrs/week for this course!  

###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 資訊科技專業與商學經營創新知能(Profession of information technology and knowledge of business innovation)
  * B. 社會責任與倫理(Social responsibility and ethics)
  * C. 溝通協調與國際化能力(Communication, coordination abilities and international capabilities)
  * D. 資訊系統管理與整合知能(Ability to manage and integrate information system)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Teamwork and leadership abilities)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Upon successful completion, the student will be able to do the following:
  * Employ a ‘divide and conquer’ problem-solving strategy to breakdown a complex programming assignment into a series of simpler tasks. 
  * Understand and make proper use of core programming concepts such as data types, operators, and control structures in Java
  * Effectively use Eclipse IDE (Integrated Development Environment) to develop and manage Java software projects 
  * Write human-readable code that complies with generally-accepted coding style guidelines, includ-ing generation of HTML-based documentation.
  * Develop programs that appropriately utilize object-oriented concepts such as abstract classes, in-heritance, interfaces and polymorphism
  * Write effective in-code comments and generate documentation using JavaDoc tools


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
| (tentative) |  |  |  |  |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
| **Week** | **Date** | **Ch.** | **Topic** | **Lab** | **TA Notice** | **Assignment**  
| 1 | 09/01-09/02 | 1 | Computation | Installation |  |   
| 2 | 09/08-09/09 | 2 | Data Type | Math, String | Upload HW | Calculator  
| 3 | 09/15-09/16 | 3 | Decisions | Ticket, Floor Determination | HW Grading |   
| 4 | 09/22-09/23 | 4 | Loops | ASCII Graph | Formatted Printing | Grade Analyzer, 495  
| 5 | 09/29-09/30 |  | Teacher's Day |  |  |   
| 6 | 10/6-10/07 |  | Mid-Autumn Festival |  |  |   
| 7 | 10/13-10/14 |  | Exam 1 |  |  |   
| 8 | 10/20-10/21 | 5 | Method | Triangle |  |   
| 9 | 10/27-10/28 | 8 | Objects and Classes | Circle |  | Grading Class  
| 10 | 11/03-11/04 | 6 | Array and ArrayList | ArrayList |  |   
| 11 | 11/10-11/11 | 7 | I/O and Exception | Shop |  | Student, Course  
| 12 | 11/17-11/18 |  | Exam 2 |  |  |   
| 13 | 11/24-11/25 | 9 | Inheritance | Animal |  | MISStudent  
| 14 | 12/01-12/02 | 9 | Polymorphism | Empolyee |  |   
| 15 | 12/08/12/09 | 9 | Inheritance + Poly | Empolyee, BankAccount |  |   
| 16 | 12/15-12/16 |  | Exam 3 |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |  |  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_60%_
####  講述 Lecture
_0%_
####  討論 Discussion
_40%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Grade Policy:   
All exams heavily reflect the labs and assignments. Therefore, you cannot rely on a teammate to do your work. No exam grades are dropped. A request to reschedule a missed exam will only be granted under clearly extraordinary circumstances, which must be supported by appropriate documentation specified by the Instructor. Otherwise, a missed exam receives a grade of zero. All graded work must be submitted as directed. You are expected to attend all classes and work diligently in lab. 
Exemptions/Waivers/Extra Credit:   
All students are subject to the same course requirements and eligible for the same extra credit opportunities. It is each student's responsibility to make whatever academic, personal and professional arrangements are needed to succeed in the course. 
Development Environment:   
The course will standardize on Java version 11 or later and Eclipse IDE, both running on the Windows operating system. They are available on the course website and the Computer Lab has these tools installed. Instructional support is only provided for student PCs that conform to these specifications.
Academic Dishonesty:   
All graded work that you do for this course must be the sole result of your own efforts unless directed otherwise. You may not do work for another student nor may any student copy or plagiarize someone else’s work. You may not assist, facilitate or enable another student's academic dishonesty, even if unintentional. Severe penalties will be imposed on all parties involved, and any grade assigned due to academic dishonesty will not be dropped! If you have any questions on this matter, contact the Instructor. 
Incompletes:   
The Instructor does not grant incompletes. Any exception is at the Instructor’s sole discretion and must be due to extraordinary circumstances supported by verifiable documentation. 
Classroom Conduct:   
Courteous, professional conduct is expected at all times. Food and beverages are not permitted. 
Electronic Devices:   
Unless otherwise approved for use in class, all electronic devices must be turned off and kept out of sight during class. No recording devices may be used without Instructor's permission.
Email:   
All email from the Instructor will be sent to your nccu email address. You should check it regularly. Email to the Instructor is for routine, brief messages (e.g., requesting an appointment). It is not for tutorials; help with an assignment, request for a grade or discussion about a grade. If you need substantive assistance, contact the Instructor. 
Disability:   
The Instructor strongly endorses the University’s policy on disabilities: If you have a disability for which you are or may be requesting an accommodation, you are encouraged to contact the Instructor and Disability at the university.  
Rules for Labs & Assignment Submissions:  
• You only have one chance to make up your late lab submission and only for one lab. (Please contact TA)  
• Bonus lab is for bonus, so no chance for making up.  
• For each assignment, you are allowed to submit a week later but get 20% off of your grading. Later than a week will be not acceptable.  
• If you have any special issues that will result in your late submission, please contact the instructor and specify the reason for the late submission (reasons such as “I don’t have time” or “my computer is broken” are not acceptable).  
• If you have any problem of any grading (lab, assignment, and exam), please contact TA within one week after the announcement of grading (either by emailing or posting on Moodle). For example, TA announces your assignment 1’s grade on late September. If you get a problem, you are supposed to contact TA as soon as possible. Further requests on adjusting your grades are not acceptable (for example, reasons such as “I didn’t notice that” are not acceptable).  
• Inconsistent/wrong naming (for file/project names) will deduct points for 10%.  
• You are responsible for your academic performance, so please don’t cheat on any assignment, lab or exam. Also, you are supposed to check whether the file you uploaded to Moodle is empty or not.  
• According to an empty file issue, TA will give a feedback on that and give you 0. Once again, please check grading after the announcement.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:You may ask AI to help you with the debugging messages. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
https://sites.google.com/view/mikehsiao/teaching/programming-25-26
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
TBA
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
