國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：資料結構 
#####  Course Name: Data Structure
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：306013001 Course No.306013001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：資管二甲、資管二乙 Course Department:Management Information Systems/B/2 
  * 授課老師：郁方 Instructor: YU FANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course covers the fundamental data structures, and their implementations and applications. Students come to understand how to use data structures effectively, knowing their concepts and programs from method descriptions and applications. Students also get chance to learn how to develop Java applications using eclipse and java class library. 
We will discuss basic and advance data structures and their related algorithms with the aim of offering students a solid technical training. The (tentative) topics include:
  1. •A brief review of java programing, object oriented design, and analysis of algorithms
  2. •Basic data structures: queues, stacks, linked lists, sequences, vectors, trees, heaps, and priority queues
  3. •Advanced data structures: dictionaries, hash tables, maps, skip lists, search/balance/splay trees, directed/weighted graphs
  4. •Fundamental algorithms: divide and conquer, merge/quick/bucket/radix sort, set partition, dynamic programing, greedy method, breadth-first search, depth-first search
  5. •Advanced topics: topological sorting, pattern matching, tries, text compression, task scheduling, transitive closures, strongly connected components, shortest paths, minimum spanning trees 
Students are required to implement a middle size system to relaize what they have learned in the course. The course is qulified to the adjustable course. There will be no lectures on Week 2, 16, and 18.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 資訊科技專業與商學經營創新知能(Profession of information technology and knowledge of business innovation)
  * B. 社會責任與倫理(Social responsibility and ethics)
  * C. 溝通協調與國際化能力(Communication, coordination abilities and international capabilities)
  * D. 資訊系統管理與整合知能(Ability to manage and integrate information system)
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力(Teamwork and leadership abilities)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The objective of this course is to offer students a solid training on object-oriented prorgaming consepts and skills. At the end of this course, students should understand common data structures and algorithms, and be able to apply that understanding to investigating new data abstractions, as well as using existing library components to develop middle-size applications. Students should also feel comfortable while programming in Java.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Lectures/Schedules (Subject to change)
彈性上課/No Lectures: Week 17 and 18.
September- Get ready to programming!
Week 1. [3/3 hours] Opening: A brief overview of Java and eclipse [Lec0] [Lec1]  
- Text Book (TB) Chapter 1
Week 2. [6 hours] Java environement setup. [彈性上課/No Lectures]
Week 3. [3/3 hours] Introduction: Object-oriented design and abstract data type [Lec2]  
- TB Chapter 2
Week 4. [3/3 hours] Text matching and Class project announcements [Lec3]  
- TB Chapter 12   
- Project: Intelligent Searching-BeatGoogle!
October – Introduce basic data structures and their implementations
Week 5. [3/3 hours] Linked List [Lec4]  
- TB Chapter 3 and Chapter 6 
Week 6. [3/3 hours] Queues and Stacks [Lec5]   
- TB Chapter 5 and Chapter
Week 7. [3/3 hours] Trees [Lec6]
-TB Chapter 7. 
-Lab programming test
Week 8. [3/3 hours] Heaps [Lec7] 
-TB Chapter 8
November – Introduce fundamental algorithms and their analyses
Week 9. [3/3 hours] BigO, Divide and Conquer [Lec8] 
-TB Chapter 4, 11
Week 10. [3/3 hours] Merge/Quick Sort (Recurrence Equations) [Lec9]
-TB Chapter 4, 11
Week 11. [3/3 hours] Dynamic Programming [Lec10]
-TB Chapter 12
Week 12. [3/12 hours] Midterm Exam   
-Lecture 1-9 TB Chapter 1-8, 11-12
December – Step on advance data structures
Week 13. [3/3 hours] Binary Search Trees [Lec11]
-TB Chapter 10
Week 14. [3/3 hours] Maps and Hash tables [Lec12] and Dictionaries and Skip Lists [Lec13] 
-TB Chapter 9 and 10
Week 15. [3/6 hours] Graphics I [Lec14] and Graphics II [Lec15] 
-TB Chapter 13, 15
January – Talk and Demo 
Week 16. [12 hours] Project Implementation: Let's Beat Google (Project Demo)
Week 17. [3/12 hours] Project Implementation: Let's Beat Google (Project Discussion) [彈性上課/No Lectures]
Week 18. [12 hours] Project Implementation: Let's Beat Google (Final Report and Code Uplaod) [彈性上課/No Lectures]
####  其他： Others: Weekly programming labs 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.