國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：資訊系統專案設計 
#####  Course Name: Information Systems Project
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：306016001 Course No.306016001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：資管三甲、資管三乙 Course Department:Management Information Systems/B/3 
  * 授課老師：向倩儀、周彥君、莊皓鈞 Instructor: HSIANG CHIEN-YI/CHOU YEN-CHUN/CHUANG HAO-CHUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：六AB1 Session: sat06-09


##  課程簡介Course Description
This is a three-semester long course. Students should work in teams on the selected projects and develop an information system that can fulfill the desired functions. Before implementing the system, system analysis and design methods or tools should be applied. Detail specification and design should be properly prepared. Documentation should be maintained properly as well. 
Students may decide the topic with the course mentor/instructor. Topics such as e-commenrce applications, digital marketing, social media, fintech, e-health, service science innovation, IT innovation, robotics, human-computer interactions, user experience design, artificial intelligence, and enterprise systems may be considered. Students should be familiar with some development tools or programming languages, such as HTML, CSS, Python, Java, Javascript, R, SQL, DBMS basics, machine learning algorithms, cloud computing basics, etc.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHIJ雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 資訊科技專業與商學經營創新知能(Profession of information technology and knowledge of business innovation)
  * B. 資訊科技專業與商學經營創新知能(Profession of information technology and knowledge of business innovation)
  * C. 社會責任與倫理(Social responsibility and ethics)
  * D. 社會責任與倫理(Social responsibility and ethics)
  * E. 溝通協調與國際化能力(Communication, coordination abilities and international capabilities)
  * F. 溝通協調與國際化能力(Communication, coordination abilities and international capabilities)
  * G. 資訊系統管理與整合知能(Ability to manage and integrate information system)
  * H. 資訊系統管理與整合知能(Ability to manage and integrate information system)
  * I. 團隊合作與領導能力(Teamwork and leadership abilities)
  * J. 團隊合作與領導能力(Teamwork and leadership abilities)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The IS Project course requires the involving students to develop a working information system for a real-life application on PCs and/or mobile APPs. The project lasts for three-semesters. During the project course, the students are required to present their progress with their mentors/instructors periodically. In the end of the third semester, each team is required to demonstrate their projects in a competition event. Excellent team will also obtain opportunities to attend the annual national competition or workshops.
The main objective includes but not limited to:
  * To design and implement an information system.
  * To understand the methods to implement a system.
  * To understand how to work on a project with multiple team members.
  * To be able to evaluate the design of a system and try to improve it.
  * To design an enterprise-level database and web server.
  * To understand the data used in the project.
  * To apply adequate business model(s) to the system.
  * To be able to apply business and technical knowledge to the project.


The desired outcomes for students include that
  * They have the knowledge of planning the development an application system.
  * They understand the life cycle of application development.
  * They can use tool for design and develop.
  * They can write proper documentation and comments in the codes.
  * They can evaluate the performance of a system.
  * They can manage a complex design and improve it.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 | Project Topic Discussion | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
2 | Project Topic Discussion | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
3 | Requirement Analysis & Business Model | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
4 | Requirement Analysis & Business Model | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
5 | Conceptual Database Design | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
6 | Conceptual Database Design | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
7 | Documentation | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
8 | Documentation | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
9 | System Development | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
10 | System Development | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
11 | System Development | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
12 | System Development | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
13 | System Development | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
14 | System Development | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
15 | System Testing | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
16 | System Testing | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
17 | Implementation & Promotion | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
18 | Implementation & Promotion | Topic Related Materials | Discussion & Group Work | 3.0 | 6.0  
Note | 
  * The course schedule is subject to change.
  * Each instructor will adjust the course schedule for each team to meet the real situations.

  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_5%_
####  講述 Lecture
_40%_
####  討論 Discussion
_45%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Participation, Discussion, Presentation, and Project Result (100%):**
  * Each mentor will use specific individualized grading rubric on the information systems project for each group.
  * _**You are expected to attend each meeting on time**_ with the assigned readings/tasks prepared in advance and to contribute to the meeting discussion either by starting the discussion or building on the contribution of others to move the discussion forward. The sharing of your experience and insights is a key part of the leaning process. To build on the contribution of others requires you to listen and to consider the timing of your participation.


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
TBD
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
**Office Hours:** By appointment.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBD
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
