國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際併購
#####  Course Name: International Mergers and Acquisitions
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：351721001 Course No.351721001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國貿碩一、國貿碩二 Course Department:International Business/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：胡聯國 Instructor: HU LEN-KUO 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
Business combinations are a critical part of the fabric of doing business in a free market economy both within a country and across political boundaries. Because business combinations often entail a common set of activities, the manager or analyst is able to view mergers, acquisitions, or business alliances in the context of a process or logical sequence of activities. This course is intended to help the students think of all the activities that contribute to the success or failure of mergers, acquisitions, and business alliances in an integrated way. The process outlined in this course consists of 10 interrelated phases and is sufficiently flexible to be applicable to business of various sizes and in different industries. Another part of the course presents a comprehensive approach to corporate valuation. It treats in detail the valuation of mergers, acquisitions, and leveraged buyouts, and the assessment of asset restructuring options and recapitalization plans. It contains valuation procedures and examples for the different types of transactions and contractual arrangement commonly encountered in practice. This course is designed for the graduate students with an interest in M&As, business alliances, and other forms of corporate restructuring. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業知識之理論基礎Theoretical foundations of professional knowledge
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題To understand and identify ethical, socially responsible, and sustainability issues
  * C. 問題解決與研究能力Problem solving and research capability
  * D. 溝通能力Communication skills
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力Team work and leadership


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
修習此課可加深學生的閱讀能力, 熟悉新型態的數位學習模式, 養成自主與終身學習的態度與策略, 具備團隊合作與專題製作能力, 有效協助學生規劃學習地圖與生涯發展
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
1st week: Introduction to Mergers and Acquisitions
2nd week: Regulatory Consideration
3rd  to 4th week: The Corporate Takeover Market: Takeover Tactics, Antitakeover Defense, and Corporate Governance
5th week: Planning: Developing Business and Acquisition Plans—Phases 1 and 2
6th week: Implementation: Search through Closing—Phases 3-10
7th week a case study with the consideration of 10 phases
8th week: mid-term case presentation
9th week: A Primer on Mergers and Acquisition Valuation
10th week: Applying Financial Modeling Techniques to Value and Structure Mergers and Acquisitions
11th week: Structuring the Deal: Payment, Legal, Tax and Accounting Consideration
12th week: Leveraged Buyouts and Recapitalization of the Troubled Companies
13th week: Alternative Exit and Restructuring Strategies: Divestitures, Spin-Offs, Carve- Outs, Split-Ups, Split-Offs, Bankruptcy, and Liquidation
14th week: Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions: Analysis and Valuation
15th to 16th week: Cases Presentation of team project
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_60%_
####  講述 Lecture
_15%_
####  討論 Discussion
_15%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class Participation: 15%
Weekly Report: 15% 
Homework (chapter business case studies): 30%
A Comprehensive Case Study and Presentation: 40%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  1. **Textbook**


DePamphilis, Donald M. (2019), “Mergers, Acquisitions, and Other Restructuring Activities 10th ed.” Elsevier Academic Press. (**DD**)
Arzac, Enrique R. (2005), “Valuation for Mergers, Buyouts, and Restructuring.” John Wiley & Sons, Inc. (**AE**)
**2. Recommended Books** : 
Baker, George P. and George D. Smith (1998), “The New Financial Capitalists: Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and the Creation of Corporate Value.” Cambridge University Press.
Carey, David and John E. Morris. (2012), “King of Capital: The Remarkable Rise, Fall, and Rise Again of Steve Schwarzman and Blackstone.” New York: Crown Business.
Davis, Scott, Carter Copeland and Rob Wertheimer (2020), “Lessons from the Titans.” New York: McGraw Hill.
Gaughan, Patrick A. (2007), “Mergers, Acquisitions, and Corporate Restructurings.” (4th edition) John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
Kosman, Josh. (2009), “The Buyout of America: How Private Equity is Destroying Jobs and Killing the American Economy.” Portfolio/Penguin.
Schwarzman, Stephen A. (2019), “What It Takes: Lessons in the Pursuit of Excellence.” Avid Reader Press.
Wasserstein, Bruce. (1998), “Big Deal: The Battle for Control of America’s Leading Corporations.” New York: Warner Books.
Weston, J. Fred. and Samuel C. Weaver (2001), “Mergers and Acquisitions.” McGraw Hill Company.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
to be arranged
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
to be arranged
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
