國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：法學方法 
#####  Course Name: Legal Methods
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：351806001 Course No.351806001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_15_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國貿碩一、國貿碩二 Course Department:International Business/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：楊培侃 Instructor: YANG PEI KAN 
  * 先修科目：[ 國際經貿法(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([])
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course focuses on examining different legal methods that have been developed in the international legal society, such as law and economics, critical legal studies, and constitutionalism, etc. With basic understandings of these legal methodologies, students are expected to analyze relevant cases adjudicated under the World Trade Organization (WTO) from both a theoretical and practical perspective. 
Unlike general legal method courses offered by law schools, this course is especially designed for graduate students of the Department of International Business with the aim to equip them the necessary analytical tool for further study of international economic law. Therefore, this course places more emphases on the legal research and analysis of international economic law (especially the WTO regime) than those on general legal reasoning and interpretation methodologies covered by ordinary legal method courses.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業知識之理論基礎Theoretical foundations of professional knowledge
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題To understand and identify ethical, socially responsible, and sustainability issues
  * C. 問題解決與研究能力Problem solving and research capability
  * D. 溝通能力Communication skills
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力Team work and leadership


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Moreover, this course provides students chances for hands-on exercises and practices of legal writing and research, the critical academic skills for the preparation and completion of master thesis. Therefore, this course aims to:
  1. equip students with basic understandings of different legal methods that have emerged in international legal scholarship;
  2. foster the ability to analyze relevant WTO cases through the lenses of different legal theories or methodologies;


familiarize students with basic structure of legal writing, skills of legal research and writing, and the knowledge of legal citations.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
The specific dates and assigned readings are subject to change with further notice.
**Dates** |  **Topics** |  **Assigned Readings/ Case Study & Presentation**  
---|---|---  
Week 1 (09/15) |  Course Introduction and Logistics |  First class PowerPoints  
Week 2 (09/22) |  Introduction to Legal Methods & Economic Approach to Law | 
  1. Guido Calabresi, _An Introduction to Legal Thought: Four Approaches to Law and to the Allocation of Body Parts_(2003), Faculty Scholarship Series, Paper 2022, Yale Law School, http://digitalcommons.law.yale.edu/fss_papers/2022. (read only Part I~V).
  2. Richard A. Posner, _The Economic Approach to Law_ , 53 Texas Law Review 757 (1975), https://chicagounbound.uchicago.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?referer=https://www.google.com.tw/&httpsredir=1&article=2881&context=journal_articles 

  
Week 3 (09/29) |  Legal Methods in International Law & Relations | 
  1. Steven R. Ratner & Anne-Marie Slaughter, _Appraising the Methods of International Law: A Prospectus of Readers_ , 93 AM. J. INT'L L. 291 (1999).
  2. Kenneth W. Abbott, _Modern International Relations Theory: A Prospectus for International Lawyers_ , 14 Yale Journal of International Law 335 (1989).

  
Week 4 (10/06) |  Legal Methods in International Economic Law | 
  1. Isabella D Bunn & Colin B Picker, _The State and Future of International Economic Law_ (2008).
  2. Tomer Broude, _At the End of the Yellow Brick Road: International Economic Law Research in Times of Uncertainty,_ Hart Publishing (2008).

  
Week 5 (10/13) | 
  1. Gregory Shaffer, A New Legal Realism: Method in International Economic Law Scholarship, Hart Publishing (2008).
  2. Joel P. Trachtman, _International Economic Law Research: A Taxonomy_ , Hart Publishing (2008).

  
Week 6 (10/20) | 
  1. Sara Dillon, _Opportunism and the WTO: Corporations, Academics and “Member States”_ , Hart Publishing (2008).
  2. Andrew TF Lang, _Some Sociological Perspectives on International Institutions and the Trading System_ , Hart Publishing (2008)

  
Week 7 (10/27) | 
  1. Federico Ortino & Matteo Ortino, _Law of the Global Economy: In Need of a New Methodological Approach?_ , Hart Publishing (2008).
  2. Emmanuel Voyiakis, _Of Foxes and Hedgehogs: Some Thoughts about the Relationship Between WTO Law and General International Law_(2008).

  
[5]~[12] in International Economic Law: The State and Future of the Discipline, Colin B. Picker, Isabella Bunn & Douglas Arner (eds.), Hart Publishing (2008), http://interlaw.ecupl.edu.cn/uploadfiles/books/International%20Economic%20law.pdf  
Week 8 (11/03) |  Economic Approach to Public International Law | 
  1. Ronald A. Cass, _Introduction: Economics and International law_ , in Economic Dimensions in International Law: Comparative and Empirical Perspectives, Jagdeep S. Bhandari & Alan O. Sykes (eds.), Cambridge University Press, 1997.
  2. Alan O. Sykes, The Economics of Public International Law, John M. Olin Law & Economics Working Paper No. 216, The Law School, The University of Chicago, July 2004, at http://www.law.uchicago.edu/files/files/216-aos-handbook.pdf

  
Week 9 (11/10) |  **No class** |  Case Study 1~9 can be downloaded at EUI website, WTO Case Law Project: http://globalgovernanceprogramme.eui.eu/wto-case-law-project/  
Week 10 (11/17) |  Case study | 
  1. Russia — Tariff Treatment (DS 485): REYNOLDS, K., & RIGOD, B. (2018). Russia–Tariff Treatment: Identifying Systematic Violations of WTO Law. World Trade Review, 17(2), 291-312. doi:10.1017/S1474745617000659.

  
Week 11 (11/24) |  Case study | 
  1. Colombia — Textiles

  
Week 12 (12/01) |  Case study | 
  1. Russia — Pigs (EU), (DS 475): BLANCHARD, E., & WU, M. (2019). Externalities and Agricultural Import Bans: Evaluating Regionalization Measures in Light of the Russia–Pigs Dispute. World Trade Review, 18(2), 173-195. doi:10.1017/S1474745619000016.

  
Week 13 (12/08) |  Case study | 
  1. Indonesia — Import Licensing Regimes (DS477): AHN, D., & GNUTZMANN-MKRTCHYAN, A. (2019). Indonesia–Import Licensing Regimes: GATT Rules for Agricultural Trade? World Trade Review, 18(2), 197-218. doi:10.1017/S1474745619000119.

  
Week 14 (12/15) |  Case study | 
  1. India — Solar Cells (DS 456): KARTTUNEN, M., & MOORE, M. (2018). India–Solar Cells: Trade Rules, Climate Policy, and Sustainable Development Goals. World Trade Review, 17(2), 215-237. doi:10.1017/S1474745617000647.
  2. Indonesia — Chicken (DS 484): RIGOD, B., & TOVAR, P. (2019). Indonesia–Chicken: Tensions between International Trade and Domestic Food Policies? World Trade Review, 18(2), 219-243. doi:10.1017/S1474745619000028.

  
Week 15 (12/22) |  Case study | 
  1. US — Washing Machines (DS 464): MAVROIDIS, P., & PRUSA, T. (2018). Die Another Day: Zeroing in on Targeted Dumping – Did the AB Hit the Mark in US–Washing Machines? World Trade Review, 17(2), 239-264. doi:10.1017/S1474745617000611.

  
Week 16 (12/29) |  Case study | 
  1. EC — Fasteners (China) (DS397): ESPA, I., & LEVY, P. (2018). The Analogue Method Comes Unfastened – The Awkward Space between Market and Non-Market Economies in EC–Fasteners (Article 21.5). World Trade Review, 17(2), 313-334. doi:10.1017/S1474745617000593.

  
Week 17 (01/05) |  Case study | 
  1. EU — Fatty Alcohols (Indonesia) (DS442): HAKOBYAN, S., & TRACHTMAN, J. (2019). EU–Fatty Alcohols (Indonesia): Corporate Structure, Transfer Pricing, and Dumping. World Trade Review, 18(2), 245-261. doi:10.1017/S1474745619000065.

  
Week 18 (01/12) |  No Class |  Above cases are subject to change.  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_40%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Grading will be based 20% on class participation and discussion, 20% on submission of TWO one-page reaction papers (out of 12 assigned articles) on legal methods in general, and 60% on an in-class oral presentation of TWO assigned or self-selected WTO cases together with a completion of TWO five-page term papers. The papers should be an original work based on the assigned or selected WTO case in compliance with appropriate citation rules.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
A coursepack will contain all the required readings for this class and should be handy for every class. Selected WTO cases for further analysis will be handed out in class and can also be found in following books or EUI website: 
  1. Henrik Horn & Petro C. Mavroidis eds., The American Law Institute Reporters’ Studies on WTO Case Law (of 2004-2005, of 2006-2007) : Legal and Economic Analysis, Cambridge Unviersity Press, 2007 (2008, 2009).
  2. EUI, WTO Case Law Project, http://globalgovernanceprogramme.eui.eu/wto-case-law-project/
  3. For those not familiar with basic international trade law, self-study of "WTO and International Trade Law" is encouraged.


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:必須揭露使用的部分 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Legal Texts (Textbook & References)
WTO Secretariat, THE RESULTS OF THE URUGUAY ROUND OF MULTILATERAL TRADE Negotiations: THE LEGAL TEXTS, Cambridge University Press/WTO, available at http://www.wto.org/english/docs_e/legal_e/legal_e.htm.
Websites (Related Links)
http://www.wto.org (official website of the World Trade Organization); 
http://www.worldtradelaw.net (case summaries);
http://cweb.trade.gov.tw (Bureau of Foreign Trade, Taiwan, R.O.C.); 
http://www.ustr.gov (official US government trade website); 
http://ec.europa.eu/trade/index_en.htm (official trade site of the European Commission); 
http://www.law.duke.edu/lib/researchguides/gatt.html (Duke Law Library’s own Research Guide to the GATT/WTO).

```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Wednesday 13:00~15:00
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
