國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：投資與資產組合 
#####  Course Name: Investment & Portfolio Management
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：351950001 Course No.351950001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國貿碩一、國貿碩二 Course Department:International Business/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：鍾令德 Instructor: CHUNG LING TAK 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This graduate course covers the fundamental principles of investment with emphases on theories and applications. The first part of the course will give an overview of the financial market and discuss optimal portfolio choice under the modern portfolio theory. We will then discuss the equilibrium implications of optimal portfolio choice and derive the capital asset pricing model (CAPM). Next, we will look into the arbitrage pricing theory (APT) and factor investing. The last part will include topics on other asset classes, performance evaluations, and risk management.
We will extensively use Python to analyze financial data and backtest portfolio strategies. There is no pre-requisite for taking the course, but students are expected to have **strong** background knowledge in statistics and calculus.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業知識之理論基礎Theoretical foundations of professional knowledge
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題To understand and identify ethical, socially responsible, and sustainability issues
  * C. 問題解決與研究能力Problem solving and research capability
  * D. 溝通能力Communication skills
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力Team work and leadership


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
1.To understand the fundamental theories of portfolio choice and asset pricing.
2.To understand and apply portfolio management techniques.
3.To understand the investment framework and conduct performance evaluation and risk management.
4.To acquire practical experience in working with financial data.
5.To develop skills in reading academic and practitioner journals.
6.To gain insights about trends in investment and portfolio management.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** | **Topic** | **Content and Reading Assignment** | **Teaching Activities and Homework** | **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**In-class Hours** | **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 (5-Sep-2025) | Course overview and quantitative tools | Lecture notes | Class 1 | 3 | 6  
2 (12-Sep-2025) | Financial market basics | BKM Chapters 1,2,3 | Class 2 | 3 | 6  
3 (19-Sep-2025) | Index replications | BKM Chapter 5 | Class 3 | 3 | 6  
4 (26-Sep-2025) | Portfolio choices I | BKM Chapter 6 | Class 4 | 3 | 6  
5 (3-Oct-2025) | Portfolio choices II | BKM Chapters 7, 8 | Class 5 | 3 | 6  
6 (10-Oct-2025) | Holiday |  |  |  |   
7 (17-Oct-2025) | Midterm examination |  |  |  | 6  
8 (24-Oct-2025) | Holiday |  |  |  |   
9 (31-Oct-2025) | CAPM | BKM Chapter 9 | Class 6 | 3 | 6  
10 (7-Nov-2025) | CAPM Applications | BKM Chapters 11,13 | Class 7 | 3 | 6  
11 (14-Nov-2025) | Multifactor model | BKM Chapter 10 | Class 8 | 3 | 6  
12 (21-Nov-2025) | Factor investing I | Lecture notes and journal articles | Class 9 | 3 | 6  
13 (28-Nov-2025) | Factor investing II | Lecture notes and journal articles | Class 10 | 3 | 6  
14 (5-Dec-2025) | Performance evaluation | BKM Chapter 24 | Class 11 | 3 | 6  
15 (12-Dec-2025) | Mutual funds and ETFs | BKM Chapter 4 | Class 12 | 3 | 6  
16 (19-Dec-2025) | Final examination |  |  |  | 6  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_60%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_30%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Examinations:
1. Midterm examination (50%).
2. Final examination (50%).
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Main textbook:
Investments, 11th Edition by Zvi Bodie, Alex Kane, and Alan Marcus, McGraw-Hill, 2019. (BKM)
Additional references:
Modern Portfolio Theory and Investment Analysis, 9th Edition by Edwin Elton, Martin Gruber, Stephen Brown, and William Goetzmann, Wiley, 2014.
Asset Management, A Systematic Approach to Factor Investing, 1st Edition by Andrew Ang, Oxford University Press, 2014.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Use AI co-pilot to assist coding Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
其他:Bring laptop for lab sessions  Other regulation
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
TBA
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
