國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：會計研究專題：CEO與CFO的協同運作
#####  Course Name: Directed Study: CEO-CFO Interplay
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：353078001 Course No.353078001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_1.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_5_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：會計博一、會計博二 Course Department:Accounting/D/1&2 
  * 授課老師：俞京和 Instructor: YU KYUNGHWA 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四8 Session: thu17-18


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course explores the impact of CEO-CFO interplay on corporate investment decisions and firm performance, with a particular focus on the moderating role of locality—specifically, whether the CEO and CFO are local executives. First, this course reviews existing literature on CEO-CFO interplay, examining the respective responsibilities of CEOs and CFOs and how their interactions influence one another. It then investigates how their relationship affects organizational activities, particularly investment decisions and performance outcomes. The course further examines the role of locality in shaping top executives' operational and investment decision-making processes. By incorporating this perspective, we aim to gain deeper insight into how locality may influence the dynamics of CEO-CFO interplay. Ultimately, we assess how locality moderates the relationship between CEO-CFO interplay and corporate investment decisions and performance, aim to provide suggestions for corporate human resource policies.
  
Given the growing academic interest in CEO-CFO interplay and cooperate focus on the role of locality, this research contributes to the academic understanding of the interplay’s functions and influencing factors. It also provides deeper insights into how these dynamics affect corporate outcomes. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to incorporate locality into research on CEO-CFO interplay, making it a significant contribution to both academic literature and practical human resource management.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 習得高階會計專業知識， 並能在專業領域深入研究 Students will acquire advanced accounting expertise, and can conduct in-depth research in professional fields.
  * B. 理解與辨別道德、社會責任與永續議題，並將其 應用於學術研究 Students will understand and identify ethical, social and sustainability issues, and apply it to academic research.
  * C. 發展獨立思考能力， 並能發掘與分析重要的 學術研究議題 Students will develop independent thinking skills, and can discover and analyze the important academic research topics.
  * D. 培養良好的溝通能力，以及會計核心課程之授課能力 Students will develop good communication skills and the ability to teach core accounting courses.


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The study will result in a completed research paper suitable for public presentation and submission to academic journals or international scholarly conferences.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |   
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction  |  |  |   
2 |  Literature Review (Topic 1: CEO-CFO Interplay) Data Collection for Locality  |  Research papers |  Reading materials & discussion |   
3 |  Literature Review (Topic 1: CEO-CFO Interplay) Data Collection for Locality |  Research papers |  Reading materials & discussion |   
4 |  Literature Review (Topic 1: CEO-CFO Interplay) Data Collection for Locality |  Research papers |  Reading materials & discussion |   
5 |  Literature Review (Topic 2: Locality) Data Collection for Locality |  Research papers |  Reading materials & discussion |   
6 |  Literature Review (Topic 2: Locality) Data Collection for Locality |  Research papers |  Reading materials & discussion |   
7 |  Literature Review (Topic 2: Locality) Data Collection for Locality |  Research papers |  Reading materials & discussion |   
8 |  Research Question and Motivation  |  Research papers |  Reading materials & discussion |   
9 |  Hypothesis Development  |  Research papers |  Reading materials & discussion |   
10 |  Research Design  |  Research papers |  Reading materials & discussion |   
11 |  Empirical Analysis (Base Model) |  Research papers |  Data analysis  |   
12 |  Empirical Analysis (Alternative Analysis) |  Research papers |  Data analysis  |   
13 |  Empirical Analysis (Robustness Test) |  Research papers |  Data analysis  |   
14 |  Writing Paper (1) |  Research papers |  Data analysis  |   
15 |  Writing Paper (2) |  Research papers |  Data analysis  |   
16 |  Final Presentation  |  |  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_0%_
####  講述 Lecture
_50%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_50%_
####  其他： Others: Data analysis 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Literature Review and Presentation 20%  
Discussion 20%  
Paper 60%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Topic 1：CEO, CFO, and CEO-CFO Interplay**  
Baker, T. A., T. J. Lopez, A. L. Reitenga, and G. W. Ruch. 2019. The influence of CEO and CFO power on accruals and real earnings management. Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting 52 (1): 325–345.  
Caglio, A., A. Dossi, and W. A. Van der Stede. 2018. CFO role and CFO compensation: An empirical analysis of their implications. Journal of Accounting and Public Policy 37 (4): 265–281.  
Chava, S., and A. Purnanandam. 2010. CEOs versus CFOs: Incentives and corporate policies. Journal of Financial Economics 97 (2): 263–278.  
Denis, J.-L., Langley, A., & Sergi, V. 2012. Leadership in the Plural. Academy of Management Annals 6(1): 211–283.  
Fang, X.T., He, K.G., Meng, Y.J., and Ye, J.F. 2022. Supervision or Collusion? CEO–CFO Social Ties and Financial Reporting Quality. Journal of Accounting Literature 44 (2/3): 133-153.  
Firk, S., N. Detzen, J. C. Hennig, and M. Wolff. 2024. Strengthening the CEO–CFO interplay: The role of regulatory focus and similar compensation plans. Accounting, Organizations and Society 113: 101563.  
Gompers, P. A., V. Mukharlyamov, and Y. Xuan. 2016. The cost of friendship. Journal of Financial Economics 119 (3): 626–644.  
Hambrick, D.C. and Mason, P.A. 1984. Upper Echelons: The Organization as A Reflection of Its Top Managers. Academy of Management Review 9(2): 193–206.  
Hanlon, M., Yeung, K., and Zuo, L. 2022. Behavioral Economics of Accounting: A Review of Archival Research on Individual Decision Makers. Contemporary Accounting Research 39(2): 1150–1214.  
Harrison, J.S., and Malhotra, S. 2024. Complementarity in the CEO-CFO Interface: The Joint Influence of CEO and CFO Personality and Structural Power on Firm Financial Leverage. The Leadership Quarterly (35): 101711.  
Hoitash, R., Hoitash, U., and Kurt, A. C. 2016. Do Accountants Make Better Chief Financial Officers? Journal of Accounting and Economics 61(2–3): 414–432.  
Howell, R. A. 2006. The CFO: From Controller to Global Strategic Partner. Financial Executive 22(3): 20–24.  
Hsieh, T.-S., Z. Wang, and S. Demirkan. 2018. Overconfidence and tax avoidance: The role of CEO and CFO interaction. Journal of Accounting and Public Policy 37 (3): 241–253.  
Jiang, J. (Xuefeng), K. R. Petroni, and I. Yanyan Wang. 2010. CFOs and CEOs: Who have the most influence on earnings management? Journal of Financial Economics 96 (3): 513–526.  
Nolop, B. P. 2012. The Essential CFO: A Corporate Finance Playbook. Hoboken, N.J.: John Wiley & Sons.   
Ren, L., and X. Zhong. 2025. Birds of the same feather: CEO-CFO surname ties and corporate accounting information comparability. Review of Managerial Science 19 (5): 1317–1346.  
Shi, W., Zhang, Y., and Hoskisson, R. E. 2019. Examination of CEO–CFO Social Interaction through Language Style Matching: Outcomes for the CFO and the Organization. Academy of Management Journal 62(2): 383–414.  
Tulimieri, P., & Banai, M. 2010. A New Corporate Paradigm: The CEO and CFO– A Partnership of Equals. Organizational Dynamics 39(3): 240–247.  
Wang, Q.P., Lau, R Y.K., and Yang, K. 2020. Does the Interplay Between the Personality Traits of CEOs and CFOs Influence Corporate Mergers and Acquisitions Intensity? An Econometric Analysis with Machine Learning-based Constructs. Decision Support Systems 139: 113424.
  
**Topic 2: Locality**  
Altman, I., and S. Low. 1992. Place Attachment. New York: Springer.  
Bick, P., and R. Flugum. 2022. Money isn’t everything: Compensation of locally educated executives. Journal of Corporate Finance 74: 102212.  
Bolor‐Erdene, B., K. Jung, W. Lee, S. Park, and H. Sunwoo. 2024. CEO locality and audit fees. International Journal of Auditing 28 (1): 44–61.  
Brock, A. 2023. Home state CEOs and financial misconduct litigation. Working paper.  
Cao, F., S. Li, H. Jian, and Y. Lu. 2024. Do local CEOs commit less fraud? Evidence from Chinese listed firms. Applied Economics Letters 31 (9): 849–853.  
Chang, D., X. Chang, and W. Yan. 2024. CEO locality and corporate social responsibility. British Journal of Management.  
Chen, J., D. Zhao, X. Liu, C. Xu, and L. Liu. 2022. Home sweet home: Do local CEOs curb stock price crash risk? Finance Research Letters 50: 103314.  
Coval, J. D., and T. J. Moskowitz. 1999. Home bias at home: Local equity preference in domestic portfolios. The Journal of Finance 54 (6): 2045–2073.  
Coval, J. D., and T. J. Moskowitz. 2001. The geography of investment: informed trading and asset prices. Journal of Political Economy 109 (4): 811–841.  
Ding, W., W. Guan, Y. Ke, K. J. Olsen, and Z. Shi. 2025. Local CEOs and asymmetric cost behaviour. Accounting & Finance 65 (1): 487–519.  
Ellemers, N., Kortekaas, P., abd Ouwerkerk, J. W. 1999. Self-categorization, Commitment to the Group and Group Self-esteem as Related but Distinct Aspects of Social Identity. European Journal of Social Psychology 29(2–3): 371–389.  
Fischer, C., C. Stueve, L. Jones, R. Jackson, K. Gerson, and M. Baldassare. 1977. Networks and places: Social Relations in the Urban Setting. New York: Free Press.  
Hernández, B., M. Carmen Hidalgo, M. Salazar-Laplace, and S. Hess. 2007. Place Attachment and Place Identity in Natives and Non-natives. Journal of Environmental Psychology 27(4): 310–319.   
Hidalgo, M., and B. Hernandez. 2001. Place Attachment: Conceptual and Empirical Questions. Journal of Environmental Psychology 21(3): 273–281.  
Hu, Y. 2023. Local CEOs, career concerns and voluntary disclosure. Journal of Business Finance & Accounting 50 (3–4): 565–597.  
Ivokovic, Z., and S. Weisbenner. 2005. Local does as local is: Information content of the geography of individual investors’ common stock investments. The Journal of Finance 60 (1): 267–306.  
Jaggi, B., and L. Tang. 2017. Geographic location of the firm and credit rating accuracy. Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance 32 (2): 155–181.  
Jiang, F., Y. Qian, and S. E. Yonker. 2019. Hometown biased acquisitions. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 54 (5): 2017–2051.  
Lai, S. F., Li, Z. Q., & Yang, Y. G. 2020. East, West, Home's Best: Do Local CEOs Behave Less Myopically? Accounting Review 95(2): 227–255.  
Lei, Z., D. Petmezas, P. R. Rau, and C. Yang. 2021. Local boy does good: CEO birthplace identity and corporate social responsibility. Working paper.  
Lim, I., and D. D. Nguyen. 2021. Hometown lending. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 56 (8): 2894–2933.  
Liu, X., W. Zhong, and J. Chen. 2023. Stay home, stay safe: CEO hometown identity and default risk. Finance Research Letters 57: 104191.  
Lv, J., S. Zhang, and S. Zhang. 2022. Hometown sentiment: CEO hometown identity and company audit fees. Managerial Auditing Journal 37 (8): 993–1016.  
Malloy, C. J. 2005. The geography of equity analysis. The Journal of Finance 60 (2): 719–755.  
Malikov, K., and S. Gaia. 2022. Do CEO social connections promote corporate malpractices? Evidence from classification shifting. Accounting Forum 46 (4): 369–393.  
Manzo, L., and D. Perkins. 2006. Finding Common Ground: The Importance of Place Attachment to Community Participation and Planning. Journal of Planning Literature 20(4): 335–350.  
Mesch, G., and O. Manor. 1998. Social Ties, Environmental Perception, and Local Attachment. Environment and Behavior 30(4): 504–519.  
Pool, V. K., N. Stoffman, and S. E. Yonker. 2012. No place like home: Familiarity in mutual fund manager portfolio choice. Review of Financial Studies 25 (8): 2563–2599.  
Proshansky, H. 1978. The City and Self-identity. Environment and Behavior 10(2):147–169.  
Ren, S. G., Cheng, Y. M., Hu, Y. C., & Yin, C. 2021. Feeling Right at Home: Hometown CEOs and Firm Innovation. Journal of Corporate Finance 66: 101815.  
Ren S, Wang Y, Hu Y, and Yan J. 2021. CEO Hometown Identity and Firm Green Innovation. Business Strategy and the Environment 30(2):756–774.  
Ren, S., H. Sun, and Y. Tang. 2023. CEO’s hometown identity and corporate social responsibility. Journal of Management 49 (7): 2455–2489.  
Tajfel, H. 1982. Social Psychology of Intergroup Relations. Annual Review of Psychology 33(1): 1.  
Tan, L., Wu, P., Ni, K.J., and Lai, X.B. Do Local CEOs with a Strong Sense of Power Foster Excessive Investment? Evidence from China. Applied Economics Letters 31 (19): 2016-2019.  
Tong, Y., Y. Tian, and Z. Cao. 2024. No place like home: Do local CEOs invest in labor more efficiently? Corporate Governance: An International Review 32 (3): 522–548.  
Yonker, S. E. 2017. Geography and the market for CEOs. Management Science 63 (3): 609–630.  
Yonker, S. E. 2017. Do Managers Give Hometown Labor an Edge? The Review of Financial Studies 30 (10):  
3581–3604.  
Yi, L., and Y. Jiang. 2024. Do hometown CEOs treat their employees better? Evidence from China. Accounting & Finance 64 (3): 2991–3012.  
Yu C, Wang T, and Gu X. 2022. Collective Reputation Cognition, Network Competence and Enterprise Innovation Performance. Management Decision 60(3):567–588.  
ZhuZhu, H., Y. Pan, J. Qiu, and J. Xiao. 2022. Hometown ties and favoritism in Chinese corporations: Evidence from CEO dismissals and corporate social responsibility. Journal of Business Ethics 176 (2): 283–310.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
E-mail: khyu@g.nccu.edu.tw
Class website: Moodle 
Office Location: 商學院1124
Office hours: by appointment 
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
None
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
