國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：債券市場分析
#####  Course Name: Bond Market Analysis
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：354812001 Course No.354812001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_60_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：統計碩一、統計碩二 Course Department:Statistics/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：扈企平 Instructor: HU CHI-PING 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
The purpose of this course, **_Bond Market Analysis_** , is to provide a comprehensive understanding on the various types of bonds (oftentimes referred to as fixed-income securities) and the function of a bond market (fixed-income securities market). The lecture materials for **_Bond Market Analysis_** are based on my 32 years of experience working as a research analyst in the U.S. financial markets. My experience in real estate financing, primary and secondary markets of bonds, and bond credit ratings will provide students with a comprehensive understanding of the process of bond financing. Entities that rely on bonds to finance their activities include: the U.S. Treasury Department, state and local governments, federal government agencies, corporations, and special purpose trusts (for asset securitization). 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備進階統計方法理論推導之能力、規劃設計實驗與調查、熟悉統計計算與資料分析之能力、熟悉進階統計方法之應用及實務、解決統計相關問題 (To equip with the ability of theoretical derivation for advanced statistical methods, to plan and design experiments and surveys, to equip with statistical computing and data analysis abilities, to be familiar with the application and practices of advanced statistical methods, and to solve problems related to statistics)
  * B. 具備專業倫理之知能 (To equip with knowledge of professional ethics)
  * C. 運用研究方法增進知識、具備綜合判斷及決策之能力 (To apply research methods to enhance knowledge, and to equip with comprehensive ability of judgment and decision making)
  * D. 具備溝通技巧 (To equip with communication skills)
  * E. 具備團隊合作與領導能力 (To equip with teamwork and leadership ability)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
After taking **_Bond Market Analysis_** , students will be well trained to have a comprehensive and thorough grasp of the various types of bonds issued, traded, and invested in the U.S. bond market. Equipped with this training and background, students will have the necessary ingredients to become skillful financial analysts, traders, investment bankers and/or money managers in bonds. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
週次 |  課程主題 |  課程內容與指定閱讀 |  教學活動與作業  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction: Overview of global fixed-income securities markets, 2024 |  _LN1-Introduction_ |  Homework   
2 |  Global Fixed-Income Securities Markets: An Overview  |  _LN2-1-Introduction_ |  Homework  
3 |  Fixed income securities: concept, terminology, and types  |  _LN2-2-Fixed Income Securities: Concept, Terminology, and Types_ |  Homework  
4 |  Bond math fundamentals: Interest rates, present value, future value, bond prices, yield-to-maturity, duration and convexity, total rate of returns, immunization of bond portfolios, and bond indexes |  _LN3-Bond Math Fundamentals with Bond Calculators_ |  Homework  
5 |  Bond math fundamentals (Cont'd) |  _LN3-Bond Math Fundamentals with Bond Calculators_ |  Homework  
6 |  Bond math fundamentals (Cont'd) |  _LN3-Bond Math Fundamentals with Bond Calculators_ |  Homework  
7 |  Bond math fundamentals (Cont'd) |  _LN3-Bond Math Fundamentals with Bond Calculators_ |  Homework  
8 |  Basics of asset-backed securities  |  _LN4-Basics of Asset-Backed Securities_ |  Homework  
9 |  The residential mortgage market |  _LN5-The Residential Mortgage Market_ |  Homework  
10 |  Securitization of residential mortgages: mortgage and mortgage security math |  _LN6-Mortgage Math_ |  Homework  
11 |  Agency guaranteed residential mortgage- backed securities |  _LN7-Agency-RMBS_ |  Homework  
12 |  Agency guaranteed residential mortgage- backed securities (cont'd) |  _LN7-Agency-RMBS_ |  Homework  
13 |  Commercial mortgage-backed securities  |  _LN8-CMBS_ |  Homework  
14 |  Derivative securities: forwords, futures, and interest rate swaps |  _LN9-Forwards, Futhres, and Interest Rate Swaps_ |  Homework  
15 |  Derivative securities: forwords, futures, and interest rate swaps |  _LN9-Forwards, Futhres, and Interest Rate Swaps_ |  Homework  
16 |  Corporate bond and structured finance credit ratings |  _LN10-Corporate Bond and Structured Finance Credit Ratings_ |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_80%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_10%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
The course grade will be determined by the “individual conduct” throughout the semester and the group performance on the take-home final exam at the end of the semester. The individual conduct throughout the semester, which will count for 20% of the course grade, is defined as: 
 Attending class regularly (5%)
 Arriving at class punctually (5%)
 Participating in class discussion actively (5%)
 Paying close attention to class lectures (5%)
The group performance on the take-home final exam at the end of the semester will count for 80% of the course grade. 
The take-home final exam, which is to be taken by study group, will consists of bond calculation questions and an investment project. The investment project assumes that all groups are given a fixed amount of money (hypothetically) to invest in designated fixed-income securities for a given period of time. The project consists of two parts: First, calculate the total rate of return of the investment in each of the designated securities under various interest rate scenarios during the investment period. Second, explain why the performance (different rates of return) of these securities varies significantly depending on the interest rate scenario. As the final exam is taken by study group, members of the same group will receive the same score on the exam. 
Students who maintain a perfect, or near perfect (missing class only once) record of class attendance will be awarded merit points to improve their grades. No grade will be given if a student misses four class meetings during the semester. The class will be curved relative to overall student performance. When the course grades are announced, they are final.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
References
1. Hu, Joseph, Bond Math Fundamentals, Lecture notes prepared for the course of Analysis of Fixed-Income Securities, 2025
2. Marcia Stigum and Anthony Crescenzi, Stigum’s Money Market, fourth edition, McGraw-Hill, 2007.
3. Hu, Joseph, Basics of Mortgage-Backed Securities, second edition, Frank J. Fabozzi Associates, 2001, (distributed by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.), 2001.
4. Hu, Joseph, Asset Securitization: Theory and Practice, Singapore: John Wiley & Sons (Asian) Pte. Ltd., 2011. 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/06/12 Syllabus_Bond Market Analysis_2025_Hu.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Instructor: Dr. Joseph Hu 
Office: Faculty research office, IMBA Yi-Xian Building
Office Hours: By appointment
Email: josephhu@nccu.edu.tw
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
