國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：決策科學
#####  Course Name: Decision Science
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：356020001 Course No.356020001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_50_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：資管碩一 Course Department:Management Information Systems/M/1 
  * 授課老師：莊皓鈞 Instructor: CHUANG HAO-CHUN 
  * 先修科目：[ 管理科學(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([])
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This is a required course for graduate students in the Department of Management Information Systems. Building on your undergraduate foundation in management science—including mathematical programming, simulation, and forecasting—we now shift the focus toward decision-making under uncertainty. Students will explore decision models where parameters and outcomes are uncertain. We will deepen our discussion of discrete and continuous probability distributions, which are critical tools for evaluating decisions in stochastic environments. A central theme of the course is the use of stochastic simulation modeling to analyze and solve a variety of business decision problems. We will cover advanced topics such as stochastic dependencies and numerical optimization algorithms. The course will conclude with applications to inventory control models, with a focus on both manufacturing systems and service supply chain management.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 資訊科技之整用與經營管理創新能力(Ability to integrate information technology and innovate operations management)
  * B. 企業社會責任(Social responsibility)
  * C. 資訊科技相關問題分析、解決與決策能力( IT-related problem analysis, solving, and decision-making ability)
  * D. 國際化溝通協調能力(International communication and coordination abilities) 
  * E. 團隊合作能力(Teamwork ability)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The primary goal of this course is to sharpen students’ quantitative reasoning skills, particularly in situations where decision outcomes are uncertain or random. By the end of the course, students are expected to develop a solid understanding of applied probability modeling and Monte Carlo simulation. The focus is on empowering students to confidently apply these techniques to real-world decision-making under uncertainty.
Probabilistic computation will be at the heart of this course. Python will be the primary programming language. The best way to master the material is through hands-on practice—writing and testing your own code will be essential for effective learning. While the use of large language models (LLMs) as programming aids is encouraged, it is crucial that you truly understand the logic and methods behind the code you produce. The ultimate goal is not just to get results, but to deeply grasp the reasoning that drives them.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** |  **課程主題** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** |  **教學活動與作業**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction |  Monte-Carlo simulation |  (9/5) Lecture & Discussion  
2 |  Decision analysis |  Bertsimas & Freund 2004 (Chapter 1) |  (9/12) Lecture & Discussion  
3 |  Fundamentals of discrete probability |  Bertsimas & Freund 2004 (Chapter 2) |  (9/19) Lecture & Discussion  
4 |  Fundamentals of continuous probability |  Bertsimas & Freund 2004 (Chapter 3) |  (9/26) Lecture & Discussion  
5 |  Stochastic dependencies |  Bertsimas & Freund 2004 (Chapters 3 & 5) |  (10/3) Lecture & Discussion  
6 |  National holiday |  NA |  (10/10) No Class Meeting  
7 |  More prob. distributions |  Bertsimas & Freund 2004 (Chapter 5) |  (10/17) Lecture & Discussion  
8 |  National Holiday |  Bertsimas & Freund 2004 (Chapter 5) |  (10/24) No Class Meeting  
9 |  Stochastic optimization  |  NA |  (10/31) Lecture & Discussion  
10 |  Exam |  Midterm Exam |  (11/7) In-Class Exam  
11 |  Dynamic simulation |  Multi-agent bidding & multi-period stocking |  (11/14) Lecture & Discussion  
12 |  Dynamic simulation |  Data-driven newsvendor |  (11/21) Lecture & Discussion  
13 |  Simulation & optimization |  Special topic |  (11/28) Lecture & Discussion  
14 |  Final project |  Project meeting |  (12/05) Meeting with Groups  
15 |  Final project |  Project meeting |  (12/12) Meeting with Groups  
16 |  Final project |  Project work |  (12/19) Finish final project  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_60%_
####  講述 Lecture
_15%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Homework: 40% 
I expect to distribute a total of 4 assignments during the semester. 
Midterm: 35% 
I will explain the exam logistics in detail.
Final Project: 25% 
Don’t be a free rider. Form your team wisely.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Lecture notes and assigned readings will be provided. So NO textbooks are required. Below lists my key references in developing this course.
Bertsimas & Freund 2004 _Data, Models, and Decisions: The Fundamentals of Management Science_
Myerson & Zambrano 2019 _Probability Models for Economic Decisions_ (2nd Edition).
Powell 2022 _Sequential Decision Analytics and Modeling_.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
https://moodle.nccu.edu.tw/ 
https://colab.google/ 

```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
TBD
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBD
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
