國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：資訊管理研究 
#####  Course Name: Topics in Information Management
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：356005001 Course No.356005001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：資博學一 Course Department:Management Information Systems/D/1 
  * 授課老師：張欣綠 Instructor: CHANG HSIN-LU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一D56 Session: mon13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
As the scope of technology continues to broaden in organizations, the management of information technology (IT) and information systems (IS) becomes both more challenging and more critical. This course will provide students with a deep understanding of the theories and issues surrounding the information systems management. This is one of the main research streams in the IS field and it has received significant research attention in the last 20 years.
This course covers the strategic information management and investigates the potential use of IT/IS to improve organizational competitive advantage. Students are exposed to topics such as business value of IT/IS, IT/IS adoption and diffusion, e-commerce, management of global supply chains, and so on. The articles are mainly drawn from the top IS journals such as MIS Quarterly, Information Systems Research, Journal of Management Information Systems, and International Journal of Electronic Commerce. The focus is on providing an in-depth coverage of key issues related to the strategic management of IS/IT.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 資訊管理理論與技術發展之掌握(Acquisition of information management theory and technology development)
  * B. 資訊科技創新下之社會責任與企業倫理(Social responsibility and business ethics responding to information technology innovation)
  * C. 國際主要學術期刊與研討會發表能力培養(Ability to publish in international academic journals and conferences)
  * D. 研究分析與資管理論創新能力(Ability to analyze research results and the innovation of information management theory)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course will provide students with a deep understanding of the theories and issues surrounding the information systems management. This is one of the main research streams in the IS field and it has received significant research attention in the last 20 years. The course is taught as a seminar for which each student is asked to read one recent articles each week. Thus, having studied the assigned material, each student will be prepared to actively participate in the classroom discussion. Participation is evaluated through the quality of contribution to discussion.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Week 1: Course Introduction
Week 2-5: Course Theme - Business Value of IT/IS
Week 6-9: Course Theme – Adoption & Diffusion of IT/IS
Week 10-13: Course Theme – The application of emerging IT/IS in different business domains, such as Fintech, industry 4.0, e-Health, platform economics, and so on. 
Week 14-17: Course Theme – New media and impacts, such as social media, AR, VR, etc.
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_50%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  1. _Critiques_ (15%): Students will choose a theme and prepare a critique. It will include a short summary of the topics covered, an evaluation and integration of the results, research methods, and techniques used in the studies and it will conclude on what is still unknown on that issue. Each critique should be presented in at the end of the corresponding theme.
  2. _Paper Review_(15%): During the semester, each student will review a paper that was submitted to a conference or a journal. Participants will have two weeks to hand in their review of that paper.
  3. _Research Work-in-Progress_(60%): Students will write a research proposal, present it, and submit it to a conference at the end of the semester. The purpose of this project is to allow each student to explore in detail any of the topics covered in class. Students have to select a specific research idea and try to examine a particular issue. Participants will have to submit a short proposal by week 9 in order to discuss it and get it approved.
  4. _Participation_ (10%): Students are expected to participate in all class discussions and activities. The input of each student is critical to his/her own and colleagues’ learning. Student’s participation will be evaluated through the quality of his/her contribution in class.


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  * Will announce latter in class


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
商院81214 (by appointment)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
