國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：軟體分析與測試
#####  Course Name: Software Analysis and Testing
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：356341001 Course No.356341001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_15_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：資管碩一、資管碩二 Course Department:Management Information Systems/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：洪智鐸 Instructor: HONG CHIH-DUO 
  * 先修科目：[ 資料結構(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([])
  * 上課時間：五D56 Session: fri13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course introduces foundational skills in program analysis and testing, which are essential for building software systems with greater reliability and security. The course examines primarily two complementary approaches: static analysis, where we analyze source code without execution to uncover potential security vulnerabilities, and dynamic analysis, where we study program behavior during runtime to detect actual security breaches. Students will learn to bridge theory and practice by implementing these analyses using modern tools and frameworks.
Prospective students should have familiarity with Python programming and a basic understanding of discrete mathematics and data structures. _The course includes weekly lab sessions, and students may need a laptop to participate in some of these sessions._
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 資訊科技之整用與經營管理創新能力(Ability to integrate information technology and innovate operations management)
  * B. 企業社會責任(Social responsibility)
  * C. 資訊科技相關問題分析、解決與決策能力( IT-related problem analysis, solving, and decision-making ability)
  * D. 國際化溝通協調能力(International communication and coordination abilities) 
  * E. 團隊合作能力(Teamwork ability)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
We assess the achievement of learning objectives through classroom discussions and exercises, assignments, a midterm exam, and a final project. These objectives include:
  * **Technical Skills in Program Analysis:** Students will learn to implement various program analysis techniques including dataflow analysis, Hoare logic, symbolic execution, and dynamic analysis. They will also explore how abstract interpretation principles can automate program analysis frameworks.
  * **Formal Methods and Evaluation:** Students will gain the ability to use abstract interpretation to formally prove the soundness and termination of an analysis. They will also learn to evaluate the scalability of program analyses and compare the precision of different techniques.
  * **General Computer Science Skills:** The course also focuses on developing transferable skills, such as:
    * Rigorously reasoning about the behavior of code.
    * Formally modeling discrete software systems and proving theorems about these models.
    * Building moderately complex programs using software frameworks.
    * Utilizing open-source analyzing/testing tools effectively.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  (9/5) **Program Representations** : AST, IR, CFG, stack machines |  3 |  6  
2 |  (9/12 - 9/19) **Dataflow Analysis** : theoretical framework, sample analyses, soundness and correctness, termination and complexity |  3 |  6  
3 |  3 |  6  
4 |  (9/26 - 10/3) **Constraint Programming** : Satisfiability Modulo Theories, SAT and SMT encoding, Z3 (10/10) Holiday |  3 |  6  
5 |  3 |  6  
6 |  3 |  6  
7 |  (10/17) **Midterm Exam**(Exam date may change according to course progress)   
(10/24 - 31) **Coverage Analysis** : fuzzing and symbolic execution |  3 |  6  
8 |  3 |  6  
9 |  |  3 |  6  
10 |  (11/7 - 11/21) **Deductive Verification** : axiomatic semantics, weakest preconditions, Floyd-Hoare proofs |  3 |  6  
11 |  3 |  6  
12 |  3 |  6  
13 |  (11/28) **Final Exam**(Exam date may change according to course progress) (12/5 - 12/12) Topics on AI for SE: Enhancing program analysis and testing using neural networks and large language models |  3 |  6  
14 |  3 |  6  
15 |  3 |  6  
16 |  (12/19) **Final Project Demo** |  3 |  6  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_40%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Assessments**
Participation 10%
Homework 10%
Midterm exam 30%
Final exam 30%
Final project 20%
**Class participation** plays a key role, as lectures are the primary means of conveying course material, which is then reinforced through in-class activities. Participation points are earned by completing these exercises in person.
The **assignments** are designed to help students develop theoretical understanding and practical skills in program analysis.
The **exams** mainly consist of variations of in-class and homework exercises that evaluate your understanding of the material.
The **final project** involves implementing a simple program analyzer. The expected deliverables include coding, documentation, and a presentation.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
1. Program Analysis. Jonathan Aldrich, Claire Le Goues, and Rohan Padhye, 2022. (pdf)
2. Static Program Analysis. Anders Møller and Michael I. Schwartzbach, 2024. (pdf)
3. Symbolic Execution and Quantitative Reasoning. Corina Pasareanu, 2020. (pdf)
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office Hours will be available every Wednesday afternoon in Room 260530.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBD
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
