國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：財務管理個案研究 
#####  Course Name: Cases Studies in Financial Management
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：357019001 Course No.357019001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_40_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：財管碩二 Course Department:Finance/M/2 
  * 授課老師：陳鴻毅 Instructor: CHEN HONG-YI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course will be conducted primarily as a seminar with lectures and case studies given by me and the students. Lectures will provide the theoretical component and the case studies will be used to reinforce those concepts and demonstrate how the theory is applied in “real-world” business situations. We will also discuss selected news articles from major media related to our topics.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 習得相關進階專業知識 Students will acquire advanced professional knowledge in finance
  * B. 團隊合作能力與領導力 Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills
  * C. 理解與辨別社會責任、企業倫理與永續議題 Students will understand and be able to identify the ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability considerations of business situations.
  * D. 解決財務專業問題能力 Students will acquire financial professional problem solving skills
  * E. 培養創新思考、溝通能力和國際視野 Students will develop creativity, communication skills and a global perspective


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The objective of this course is to integrate theory and application through the use of case studies and develop students’ financial and analytical skills. The main topics include financial statement analysis, cost of capital, capital budgeting, payout policy, security offering, capital structure, and merger and acquisition.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Note: I will adjust this schedule to meet the needs of the class.
Week  |  Course Theme |  Estimated time devoted to coursework per week  
---|---|---  
|  |  Lecture Hours |  Preparation/Review Time  
1 | 
  * Class overview
  * Case 0: Circular Economy (class discussion)

|  3 |  4.5  
2 | 
  * Case 0 (group presentation)
  * Lecture: Financial Statement Analysis

|  3 |  4.5  
3 | 
  * Case 1: Financial Statement Analysis (class discussion)
  * Lecture: Equity Valuation Models

| 3 | 4.5  
4 | 
  * Case 2: Capital Budgeting (class discussion)
  * Case 2: Capital Budgeting (group presentation)
  * Lecture: Cost of Equity

|  3 |  4.5  
5 | 
  * Case 3: WACC (class discussion)
  * Case 3: WACC (group presentation)
  * Lecture: Raising Capital

|  3 |  4.5  
6 | 
  * Guest Speech

|  3 |  4.5  
7 | 
  * Case 4: IPO (class discussion)
  * Case 4: IPO (group presentation)
  * Lecture: Capital Structure

|  3 |  4.5  
8 | 
  * Case 5: Capital Structure (class discussion)
  * Case 5: Capital Structure (group presentation)
  * Lecture: Payout Policy

| 3 | 4.5  
9 | 
  * Case 6: Payout Policy (class discussion)
  * Case 6: Payout Policy (group presentation)
  * Lecture: M&A

| 3 | 4.5  
10 | 
  * Case 7: M&A (class discussion)
  * Case 7: M&A (group presentation)
  * Lecture: Bankruptcy

|  3 |  4.5  
11 | 
  * Case 8: Bankruptcy (class discussion)
  * Case 8: Bankruptcy (group presentation)
  * Lecture: Efficient Market Hypothesis

|  3 |  4.5  
12 | 
  * Lecture: Behavioral Finance
  * Lecture: Event Study

|  3 |  4.5  
13 | 
  * Case 9: ETF (class discussion)
  * Lecture: ETF/Mutual Funds

|  3 |  4.5  
14 | 
  * Lecture: Capital Allocation

|  3 |  4.5  
15 | 
  * Case 10: Capital Allocation (class discussion)
  * Case 10: Capital Allocation (group presentation)

|  3 |  4.5  
16 | 
  * Final Exam

|  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_50%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Group Presentation & Reports 40%  
Group Write-ups 15%  
Class Participation & Discussion 20%   
Final Exam 25%
**Case and Group Works:**  
Group case assignments will be completed in teams of up to 5 students. Students organize groups on their own by the first meeting. Students with no group will be randomly allocated to groups by the instructor. Once groups are formed, no groups can change members without the instructor’s approval.  
For each case, two groups will be selected to present a detailed analysis or perform numerical calculations during class. These groups must prepare:  
1. Presentation slides (no more than 20 minutes)  
2. A printed case report (to be submitted to the instructor before the class begins)  
3. All relevant calculation files uploaded to Moodle  
All groups must discuss each case and submit a case write-up. A hard copy of the write-up should be submitted before the start of the class in which the case is discussed. The write-up should include the problem description, facts and assumptions, analysis, and recommendation. Tables, calculations, or spreadsheets are not required in the write-up.   
Please note that late submission of either the case report or the write-up will result in a 30% deduction from the original grade of the respective component.
**Class Participation:**
**Regular class attendance is necessary to get a high participation grade, but it is not sufficient.** Active class participation via discussion, questions, and contributions of problem solving is expected.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
1. Corporate Finance, by Stephen Ross, Randolph Westfield, Jeffrey Jaffe, and Bradford Jordan. McGraw-Hill, 13th edition, 2022. (RWJ)
2. Principles of Corporate Finance, by Richard A. Brealey, Stewart C. Myers, Franklin Allen, 13th edition, 2019. (BMA)
3. Supplemental Reading
Selected news articles from major media will be distributed before the class. The supplemental reading is related to the theory from text book. Students are responsible for reading the news articles in advance of the class in which they will be discussed. 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:禁止直接利用生成式AI工具生成報告繳交 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Instructor: Hong-Yi Chen 
Office Hour: by appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
