國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：財務理論研討（一）：離散時間模式
#####  Course Name: Seminar on Financial Theory (I): Discrete Time Finance
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：357042001 Course No.357042001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：財管博一 Course Department:Finance/D/1 
  * 授課老師：盧敬植 Instructor: LU CHING-CHIH 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course introduces fundamental economic theories that basic asset pricing models are based on. After the derivation of CAPM, we will move on to a brief introduction on contingent claims and proceed with more modern setup of stochastic discount factor.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 習得相關進階專業知識 Students will acquire advanced professional knowledge in finance
  * B. 在專業領域能深入研究 Students will conduct in-depth research in professional fields
  * C. 理解與辨別社會責任與企業倫理與永續議題，並將道德應用於商業研究 Students will understand and be able to identify the ethical considerations of business situations and apply to research
  * D. 發展必要的研究能力為學術界貢獻 Students will develop essential research skills and contribute to academia
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
To equip the Ph.D. students with fundamental knowledge in finance, especially in the branch of asset pricing.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
  1. Preferences, Expected Utility Representation  
* H-L Chapter 1  
* Ingersoll Chapter 1  
* Campbell Chapter 1  
  2. Stochastic Dominance  
* H-L Chapter 2  
* Campbell Chap 1  
* Ingersoll Chapter 5  
  3. Mean Variance Analysis – The Individual’s Problem  
* H-L Chapter 3  
* Campbell Chap 2  
* Ingersoll Chapter 3  
  4. CAPM  
* H-L Chapter 4  
* Campbell Chap 3  
* Ingersoll Chapter 4  
* Merton, Robert C, 1987, A Simple Model of Capital Market Equilibrium with Incomplete Information, _Journal of Finance_ 42, 483-510.  
# Fama, Eugene F., and James D. MacBeth, 1973, Risk, Return, and Equilibrium: Empirical Tests, _Journal of Political Economy_ 81, 607-636.  
* Chchrane Chap 12.3  
# Shanken, Jay and Guofu Zhou, 2007, Estimating and testing beta pricing models: Alternative methods and their performance in simulations, _Journal of Financial Economics_ 84, 40-86.  
  5. Arrow-Debreu Securities and General Equilibrium Consideration  
* H-L Chapter 5  
* Ingersoll Chapters 2, 8, 9  
  6. APT  
* Ingersoll Chap 7  
* Campbell Chap 3  
* Cochrane Chap 9.4 (will be discussed later)  
* Ross, Stephen A, 1976, The Arbitrage Theory of Capital Asset Pricing, Journal of Economic Theory 13, 341-60.  
* Huberman, Gur, 1982, A Simple Approach to Arbitrage Pricing Theory, Journal of Economic Theory 28, 183-91.  
* Huberman, Gur, and Zhenyu Wang, 2005, Arbitrage Pricing Theory, in S.N. Durlauf, and L.E. Blume, eds.: The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics, forthcoming (Palgrave Macmillan).  
  7. Introduction to Dynamic Models and Rational Expectations: Lucas Trees  
* Lucas, Robert E, Jr, 1978, Asset Prices in an Exchange Economy, _Econometrica_ 46, 1429-45.  
* Campbell Chap 4, Chap 6  
* Cochrane Chap 1, Chap 4  
* Hansen, Lars Peter, and Kenneth J. Singleton, 1982, Generalized Instrumental Variables Estimation of Nonlinear Rational Expectations Models, _Econometrica_ 50, 1269-86.  
  8. Factor Pricing Models  
* Cochrane Chap 6, Chap 9  
* Campbell Chap 3  
* Handbook of Finance 1B, Chap 12  
* Fama, Eugene F., and Kenneth R. French, 1992, The Cross-Section of Expected Stock Returns, Journal of Finance 47, 427-65.  
* Fama, Eugene F., and Kenneth R. French, 1993, Common Risk Factors in the Returns on Stock and Bonds, Journal of Financial Economics 33, 3-56.  
* Fama, Eugene F., and Kenneth R. French, 1995, Size and Book-to-Market Factors in Earnings and Returns, Journal of Finance 50, 131-55.  
* Fama, Eugene F, and Kenneth R French, 2015, A five-factor asset pricing model, Journal of Financial Economics 116, 1-22.  
* Ang, Andrew, Robert J. Hodrick, Yuhang Xing, and Xiaoyan Zhang, 2006, The Cross-Section of Volatility and Expected Returns, Journal of Finance 61, 259-99.  
* Jegadeesh, Narasimhan, and Sheridan Titman, 1993, Returns to Buying Winners and Selling Losers: Implications for Stock Market Efficiency, Journal of Finance 48, 65-91.  
* Pastor, Lubos, and Robert F. Stambaugh, 2003, Liquidity Risk and Expected Stock Returns, Journal of Political Economy 111, 642-685.  
# Goyenko, Ruslan Y., Craig W. Holden, and Charles A. Trzcinka, 2009, Do liquidity measures measure liquidity?, Journal of Financial Economics 92 2, 153-81.  
# Harvey, Campbell R., Yan Liu, and Heqing Zhu, 2016, … and the cross-section of expected returns, The Review of Financial Studies 29, 5-68.  
# Breeden, Douglas T., Michael R. Gibbons, and Robert H. Litzenberger, 1989, Empirical test of the consumption-oriented capm, The Journal of Finance 44, 231-262.
  9. The Equity Premium Puzzle  
* Mehra, Rajnish, and Edward C Prescott, 1985, The Equity Premium: A Puzzle, _Journal of Monetary Economics_ 15, 145-61.  
* Rietz, Thomas A., 1988, The Equity Risk Premium: A Solution, Journal of Monetary Economics 22, 117-31.  
Mehra, Rajnish, and Edward C. Prescott, 1988, The Equity Risk Premium: A Solution?, Journal of Monetary Economics 22, 133-36.  
Barro, Robert J., 2006, Rare Disasters and Asset Markets in the Twentieth Century, Quarterly Journal of Economics 121, 823-66.  
* Handbook of Finance 1B, Chap 14
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.