國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：商業營運的數據與決策分析
#####  Course Name: Data and Decision Analytics for Business Operations
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：363874001 Course No.363874001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_1.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：企研碩一、企研碩二 Course Department:Master of Business Administration Program/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：莊皓鈞 Instructor: CHUANG HAO-CHUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一F Session: mon19-20
##  課程簡介Course Description
In many business problem situations, managers collect data to shape their beliefs about _uncertain parameters and outcomes_. Simulation is perhaps the most important modeling technique being used to facilitate _decision-making under uncertainty_. With that premise, this course exposes students to discrete and continuous probability distributions and simulation that are crucial for evaluating decisions in a stochastic environment. We will analyze numerous decision problems that can be solved by simulation analysis. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 習得相關進階專業知識（Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.）
  * B. 理解與辨別商業環境中道德、社會責任與永續議題（Students will understand and be able to identify the ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability considerations of business situations.）
  * C. 創新方法、創業態度與面對變革的能力（Students can demonstrate innovative, entrepreneurial approaches to manage change.）
  * D. 發現問題、解決問題與決策能力（Students will identify problems, develop and evaluate possible alternatives and make decisions.）
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力（Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.）
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The primary goal of this course is to sharpen students’ quantitative modeling capabilities to give an edge to your career. After taking this course, students are expected to have a good understanding of Monte-Carlo simulation methods grounded on subjective and objective data. Lecture notes and assigned readings will be made available online. 
_Python_ programming will be part of this learning process. Note that this is NOT a _Python_ language course so I will not teach you _Python_ from scratch. Instead, sample codes for lecture problems will be explained and provided. To make our life easier, we will use Colaboratory developed by Google (https://colab.research.google.com/). The only way to maximize learning efficacy is to generate the program. Remember, now we have a good friend called _ChatGPT_. Coding is less crucial as defining problems, objectives, variables, and parameters.
Finally, I highly encourage students to ask me questions in- and off-class whenever you don’t understand my lectures. I urge students NOT to ask for solutions to homework problems. Be open-minded to LISTEN to each other, be proactive to share, and think out-of-the-box.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
lass Schedule
Class 1 (Sep 01) |  Discrete distributions  
---|---  
Class 2 (Sep 08) |  Continuous distributions & stochastic dependencies  
Class 3 (Sep 15) |  Optimal decisions  
Class 4 (Sep 22) |  Dynamic models  
Class 5 (Oct 13) |  Prediction & Prescription  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.