國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：會計學
#####  Course Name: Accounting
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：363950001 Course No.363950001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：企研碩一 Course Department:Master of Business Administration Program/M/1 
  * 授課老師：潘健民 Instructor: PAN CHIEN-MIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間： Session: 


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is an introductory level Accounting course. It is designed to enhance students’ understanding of the financial reporting process. The focus of the course is on fundamental accounting concepts and principles. The course shows students how the economic transactions of a firm are prepared and reported in the financial statements and related disclosures. The objective of the course is to provide students with basic skills to prepare, read and use financial statements. This course also aims to further prepare students for more advanced financial accounting courses as well as to help students become both sophisticated preparer and users of financial accounting information.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 習得相關進階專業知識（Students will acquire and apply expertise in their respective fields.）
  * B. 理解與辨別商業環境中道德、社會責任與永續議題（Students will understand and be able to identify the ethics, social responsibility, and sustainability considerations of business situations.）
  * C. 創新方法、創業態度與面對變革的能力（Students can demonstrate innovative, entrepreneurial approaches to manage change.）
  * D. 發現問題、解決問題與決策能力（Students will identify problems, develop and evaluate possible alternatives and make decisions.）
  * E. 團隊合作與領導能力（Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills.）


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is designed to provide you with an in-depth understanding of the subjects covered by the materials - fundamental financial accounting. The nature of this course is demanding and challenging. It is time-consuming for a college freshman to master the subjects while trying to get used to the newly-started college life in the same time. To succeed, you need to put serious efforts for this course. Be sure to come to each class prepared.
The course materials will be presented through a mix of class lectures, assigned readings and problems. You should maximize your understanding of the materials by attending and participating in class lectures and discussions. To be successful, you are expected to do the followings:
  1. read the assigned readings and be prepared before you come to the class.
  2. arrive on time.
  3. be actively involved in class by asking questions and participating in discussions.
  4. review the assigned readings and attempt all homework and problems after the class.


After you have done everything you are expected to do and you still have difficulties with the materials after we have discussed in class, my office hours are available for you.
**Important Notes and Policies**
  1. Exams must be taken as scheduled. No makeup exam will be given under any circumstances.
  2. Leaving classroom without permission during the exam will be penalized.
  3. Proper classroom manner at all times is expected.
  4. Turn off you cell-phone during the class time.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  Introduction / Chapter 1 – Accounting Information: Users and Uses |  Chapter 1 |  Chapter 1 |  3 |  6  
2 |  Chapter 2 – Financial Statements: An Overview / Chapter 3 – The Accounting Cycle: The Mechanics of Accounting |  Chapter 2, 3 |  Chapter 2, 3 |  3 |  6  
3 |  Chapter 4 – Completing the Accounting Cycle / Chapter 5 – Internal Controls and Cash |  Chapter 4, 5 |  Chapter 4, 5 |  3 |  6  
4 |  Chapter 6 – Receivables / Chapter 7 – Inventory and the Cost of Sales |  Chapter 6, 7 |  Chapter 6, 7 |  3 |  6  
5 |  **Mid-term Exam** |  |  |  |   
6 |  Chapter 8 - Completing the Operating Cycle / Chapter 9 - Investments: Property, Plant, and Equipment and Intangible Assets  |  Chapter 8, 9 |  Chapter 8, 9 |  3 |  6  
7 |  Chapter 10 - Financing: Long-Term Liabilities / Chapter 11 - Financing: Equity /  |  Chapter 10, 11 |  Chapter 10, 11 |  3 |  6  
8 |  Chapter 12 - Investments: Debt and Equity Securities / Chapter 13: Statement of Cash Flows |  Chapter 12, 13 |  Chapter 12, 13 |  3 |  6  
9 |  Chapter 14: Analyzing Financial Statements |  Chapter 14 |  Chapter 14 |  3 |  6  
10 |  **Final Exam** |  |  |  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_100%_
####  講述 Lecture
_0%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Grading policies**
Two exams will be administered in this course. Your high and low scores will be 60% and 40% of your term grade, respectively.
I expect you to come to each class meeting, but I will not take attendance on a regular basis. However, I will randomly take attendance just to get to know who are taking the course and the randomly taken attendance will be a reference to tell me who comes to class meetings and who does not. Your term grade will be based on the exams given in the classes. Exams will be administered on scheduled dates.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
(1) Required Texts:
Principles of Financial Accounting IFRS Edition / Second Edition 2017 by James D. Stice, Earl K. Stice, W. Steve Albrecht, Monte R. Swain, Rong-ruey Duh, and Audrey Wen-hsin Hsu (Cengage Learning, ISBN-13: 981-4780-67-7; ISBN-13: 978-987-4780-67-4) 
(2) Supplementary Material: 
鄭丁旺、汪泱若、黃金發、林宛瑩「初級會計學」12th edition, 2011.
杜榮瑞、薛富井、蔡彥卿、林修葳「會計學概要」六版, 2017
(3) Calculator: 
A calculator for homework and exams is recommended but not required.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
