國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：科技與創新管理研討
#####  Course Name: Seminar in Technology and Innovation Management
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：364079001 Course No.364079001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：科博學一、科博學二 Course Department:Graduate Institute of Technology, Innovation and Intellectual Property Management/D/1&2 
  * 授課老師：許牧彥 Instructor: HSU MU-YEN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
這是研究科技與創新管理這個學術領域的入門課。首先介紹學術領域的發展緣起及相關範疇。然後從產業演化談起，探討企業創新如何改變產業動態、技術典範與發展軌跡、以及市場選擇與破壞過程。特別著重探討影響企業創新行為與獲利的關鍵因素。
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 習得科技管理與智慧財產管理之專業知識 (Students will acquire advanced professional knowledge in Technology, Innovation and Intellectual Property Management)
  * B. 理解並運用社會責任與永續議題 (Students will understand and apply the social responsibility and sustainability considerations in research)
  * C. 習得研究方法並進行獨立研究之能力 (Students will acquire the knowledge of methodology and independent research skills)
  * D. 撰述表達及學術研究發表能力 (Students will develop communication skills and publish academic research papers)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
1、 藉著上課的講授，幫助學生認識科技與創新管理的演進與範圍。
2、 經由文獻的探討，引導學生掌握科技與創新管理相關的議題及研究的方法。
3、 學習運用資料庫，協助學生實證分析台灣產業創新與科技創新管理的現象。
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
1(9/04)課程簡介 T1- Innovation: A Guide to the Literature Martin(2008) The Evolution of Science Policy and Innovation Studies Rindfleisch et al.(2020) Innovation Research Themes for Our Changing Environment 背景知識：請參考碩士班課程「創新經濟學與產業動態分析」 https://seaeconomicsofinnovation.blogspot.com/ 2(9/11) Foundations of Innovation Studies
  1. Nelson (1959), ‘The simple economics of basic research’, J Pol Econ 310
Nelson & Winter (1977), ‘In search of useful theory of innovation’, Res P 370
  1. Dosi & Winter (1994), An Introduction of the Evolutionary Theories of Economics, Journal of Evolutionary Economics, Vol. 4, 153-172.
  2. Dosi, Llerena & Labini (2006), The relationships between science, technologies and their industrial exploitation: An illustration through the myths and realities of the so-called ‘European Paradox’, Research Policy, Vol. 35, Issue 10
  3. Caraça, Lundvall & Mendonça (2009), The changing role of science in the innovation process: From Queen to Cinderella? Technological Forecasting & Social Change, 76, 861-867.
3(9/18) Industry Evolution and Innovation Dynamics
  1. JM Utterback, WJ Abernathy (1975), ‘Dynamic model of innovation’, Omega 345
  2. R. Barras (1986). Toward a theory of innovation in service. Research Policy, 13, 161-173
  3. Gort M, Klepper S. 1982. Time paths in the diffusion of product innovations. Economic Journal 92: 630–653.
Klepper S. 1996. Entry, exit, growth, and innovation over the product life cycle. American Economic Review 86(3): 562–583. INDUSTRY EVOLUTION AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP- STEVEN KLEPPER'S CONTRIBUTIONS 4 (9/25）Technological paradigms and trajectories-- Dominant design and Demand
  1. G Dosi (1982), ‘Technological paradigms and trajectories’, Res Policy 595
G Dosi (1988), ‘Sources and microeconomic effects of innovation’, J Econ Lit 535
  1. PA David (1985), ‘Clio and economics of QWERTY’, Am Econ Rev 680
  2. Adner, R. & Levinthal, D. 2001, Demand Heterogeneity and Technology Evolution: Implications for Product and Process Innovation, Management Science, Vol. 47 Issue 5, p611-18.
Dawid, H., G. Pellegrino, & M. Vivarelli (2020) The role of demand in fostering product vs process innovation: a model and an empirical test, Journal of Evolutionary Economics, July. 20 Adams P, Fontana R, Malerba F. 2013. The magnitude of innovation by demand in a sectoral system: the role of industrial users in semiconductors. Research Policy 42(1): 1–14. 5 (10/02）Technology-Push v.s. Demand Pull, System of Innovation
  1. Stefanoa, Gambardellab & Veronab(2012), Technology push and demand pull perspectives in innovation studies: Current findings and future research directions, Research Policy 41, 1283– 1295 
Guo , Wang, Su , and Wang (2020) Technology Push or Market Pull? Strategic Orientation in Business Model Design and Digital Start-up Performance, Journal of Product Innovation Management, 37(4):352–372.
  1. T7 System of Innovation,
  2. Geel, F. (2004), From sectoral systems of innovation to socio-technical systems: Insights about dynamics and change from sociology and institutional theory, Research Policy 33, 897–
920. DOI:10.1016/J.RESPOL.2004.01.015Corpus ID: 14381230
  1. Weber & Rohracher (2012), Legitimizing research, technology and innovation policies for transformative change: Combining insights from innovation systems and multi-level perspective in a comprehensive ‘failures’ framework, Research Policy 41, 1037–1047.
6 (10/09）Innovation Diffusion and Competitive Dynamics
  1. Bass, F. M. (1969) A New Product Growth for Model Consumer Durables, Management Science, 15(5), pp.215-227
  2. Farell, C. J. (1993), A Theory of Technological Progress, TECHNOLOGICAL FORECASTING AND SOCIAL CHANGE 44, 161-178.
  3. 蕭瑞麟，侯勝宗，歐素華 （2012），演化科技意會—衛星派遣科技的人性軌跡，資訊管理學報，18卷第4期，91-118頁。
  4. 許牧彥、高偉哲、邱郁雯、李淑華(2024)。邁向創新擴散與產業動態之一般性預測模型—以Bass-Lotka-Volterra模型分析Intel及AMD之競合。科技管理學刊，第29卷第1期，65-102頁。
7(10/16) The Innovator’s Dilemma
  1. ML Tushman, P Anderson (1986), ‘Tech discontinuities and org envts’, A Sc Qu 780
Anderson and Tushman (1990). Technological discontinuity and dominant design: A cyclical model of technological change. Administrative Science Quarterly, 35(4), 604-633.
  1. RM Henderson, KB Clark (1990), ‘Architectural innovation’, Admin Sc Qu 690
  2. Afuah & Bahram (1995), The Hypercube of Innovation, Research Policy, 24: 51-76.
BALDWIN, Carliss Y. and Woodard, C. Jason. The Architecture of Platforms: A Unified View. (2009).Platforms, Markets and Innovation. 19-44. 8（10/23）Disruptive Innovation
  1. Christensen, C.M. & R.S. Rosenbloom (1995), “Explaining the Attacker’s Advantage: Technological Paradigms, Organizational Dynamics, and the Value Network”, Research Policy, 24(2), 233-257.
Christensen CM (1997), The Innovator’s Dilemma 565
  1. Adner, R. (2002), “When Are Technologies Disruptive? - A Demand-Based View of the Emergence of Competition”, Strategic Management Journal., 23: 667–688.
  2. Glen M. Schmidt and Cheryl T. Druehl,(2008) “When Is a Disruptive Innovation Disruptive?”, Journal of Product Innovation Management, 25:347–369.
Martınez-Vergara et al. (2020) Clarifying the disruptive innovation puzzle: a critical review, European Journal of Innovation Management. https://www.emerald.com/insight/1460-1060.htm 9 (10/30) Absorptive Capacity and Dynamic Capability
  1. WM Cohen and DA Leventhal (1990). Absorptive capacity: A new perspective on learning and innovation. Administrative Science Quarterly, 35, 128-152.
  2. J. Vega-Jurado, A. Gutierrez-Tracia and I. Fernandez-de-Lucio (2008) Analyzing the determinants of firm’s absorptive capacity: beyond R&D. R&D Management, 38(4), pp.392-405.
  3. David Teece (2007). Explicating dynamic capabilities: The nature and micro-foundations of (Sustainable) enterprise performance. Strategic Management Journal, 28, 1319-1350
10（11/06）Open Innovation
  1. Henry Chesbrough and M.M. Appleyard (2007). Open innovation and strategy. California Management Review, 50(1), 57-76.
  2. D. Chiaroni, V. Chiesa, and F. Frattini (2011). The open innovation journey: How firms dynamically implement the emerging innovation management paradigm. Technovation, 31, 34-43.
  3. Annabelle Gawer (2014). Bridging different perspectives on technological platforms: Toward an integrative framework. Research Policy, 43, pp.1239-1249.
  4. Michael L. Tushman and Charles A. O’Relly III (1996). Ambidextrous organizations: Managing evolutionary and revolutionary change. California Management Review, 38(4), 7-30.
11(11/13) Profiting from Innovation
  1. Teece, D. (1986) “Profiting from technological innovation: Implications for integration, collaboration, licensing and public policy”, Research Policy, Vol.15, 285-305.
Introduction to Teece (1986)’s Special Issue Teece, D. (2006) Reflections on “Profiting from Innovation”, Research Policy, Vol.35, 1131-1146.
  1. Pisano & Teece (2007), How to Capture Value from Innovation: Shaping Intellectual Property and Industry Architecture, CALIFORNIA MANAGEMENT REVIEW VOL. 50, NO. 1 FALL.
  2. Henkel, Baldwin & Shih. (2013) "IP Modularity: Profiting from Innovation by Aligning Product
Architecture with Intellectual Property." California Management Review 55, no. 4 (Summer): 65–82. 12(11/20) Measuring Innovation
  1. T6- Measuring Innovation
Oslo Manual，CIS: Community Innovation Statistics 第二次及第三次台灣創新調查問卷（TIS2，TIS3）
  1. Hsu, M. Y., and H. C. Chuang (2014), “Appropriation Strategies and Patenting Motivations - An Empirical Study of Taiwan CIS Data”, Academy of Management(AOM) Annual Meeting, August 1 - 5, in Philadelphia, PA.
  2. Hussain, S. and Terziovski, M. 2015. Intellectual Property Appropriation Strategy and its Impact on Innovation Performance. International Journal of Innovation Management. 20 (2):
13(11/27) Knowledge Management of Firm
  1. B Kogut, U Zander (1992), ‘Knowledge of firm … and replication of technology”OS 725
RM Grant (1996), ‘Towards a knowledge-based theory of the firm’, Strat Mngt J 450
  1. I Nonaka (1994), ‘Dynamic theory of organizational knowledge creation’, Org Sc 855
Ikujiro Nonaka and Georg von Krogh (2009). Tacit knowledge and knowledge conversion: Controversy and advancement in organizational knowledge creation theory. Organization Science, 20(3), 635-652.
  1. A. Schulze and M. Hoegl (2008). Organizational knowledge creation and the generation of new product ideas: A behavioral approach. Research Policy, 37, 1742-1750.
許牧彥（2003），從知識的經濟本質談知識產權的原理，科技發展政策報導，SR9206, 442-455。 14(12/04) Interaction of IP and innovation
  1. Sherry, E. F., & Teece, D. J. (2004). Royalties, evolving patent rights, and the value of innovation. Research Policy, 33(2), 179-191.
  2. Encaoua, D., Guellec, D., & Martínez, C. (2006). Patent systems for encouraging innovation: Lessons from economic analysis. Research policy, 35(9), 1423-1440.
  3. Cotter, T. F. (2008). Patent holdup, patent remedies, and antitrust responses. J. Corp. L., 34, 1151.
  4. Castaldi, C. (2018). To trademark or not to trademark: The case of the creative and cultural industries. Research Policy, 47(3), 606-616.
15(12/11) 期末報告與討論 16(12／18) 期末報告與討論  
---  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.