國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：創新經濟與法律
#####  Course Name: Legal Aspects of Digital Innovation
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：364757001 Course No.364757001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：科智碩1B、科智碩2B Course Department:Graduate Institute of Technology, Innovation and Intellectual Property Management/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：鄭菀瓊 Instructor: CHENG WAN-CHIUNG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
Over the past decade, technological innovation has greatly impacted the financial services industry, and further innovation and disruption are occurring every day. We are witnessing major global changes in the realms of foreign exchange, payments, insurance, personal and corporate borrowing, consumer financial advice, and wealth management, just to name a few. Sharing economy has a similar taste and texture. To understand these changes, we need to understand both the technological changes and the underlying economics of the financial services and/or other platform industries, along with the role of Private Equity (PE) and/or Venture Capital (VC) firms that are often funding and fostering such changes, and are affected by them in turn.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 習得科管與智財相關進階專業知識 (Students will acquire advanced professional knowledge in Technology, Innovation and Intellectual Property Management)
  * B. 理解與辨別社會責任與永續議題 (Students will understand and be able to identify social responsibility and sustainability issues)
  * C. 培養創新思考、分析方法和國際視野 (Students will use innovative thinking skills and analytical methods to enhance professional competence as well as develop a global perspective)
  * D. 專業溝通技能 (Students are able to communicate professionally)
  * E. 團隊合作能力、培養領導技能 (Students will be able to work effectively in teams as well as develop leadership skills)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
In this course, we will study this innovation and entrepreneurship in the Peer-to-Peer (P2P) services industry in general, with a special focus on Financial Technology (FinTech) and sharing economy. We will examine whether and how the creative application of technology can responsibly address market shortcomings and meet consumer needs in the realm of P2P services. The role of law (including, but not limited to regulation and compliance) will be highlighted and examined in details. In addition, personal identifiable information (PII) plays an ambiguous role in the shaping of New Economy (FinTech included). Hence, related PII laws will be examined from both legal and business perspectives.
We will do so through a combination of cases, lectures, class discussions, and guest speakers, designed to teach students economic principles and put students in the shoes of managers and decision-makers addressing a 'forest' of challenges facing the industry. We will examine innovation in both products and processes in the financial services industry, and explore FinTech or sharing platform as a venue for the application of entrepreneurial thought and venture launch.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Note: This schedule is subject to change. Please re-visit before the semester starts. Thanks.
Class |  Topic |  Subject Matter  
---|---|---  
Week 1 |  Introduction |  Introduction of the Course (scope, topics, grading, etc.)  
Week 2 |  FinTech (1) |  TBD (e.g. P2P Lending)  
Week 3 |  FinTech (2) |  TBD (e.g. Mobile Payment)  
Week 4 |  FinTech (3) |  TBD (e.g. Bit-coin)  
Week 5 |  Invited Talk |  A 150-word Note is required for reflection  
Week 6 |  FinTech (4) |  TBD (e.g. Points)  
Week 7 |  HBS Case | TBD  
Week 8 |  FinTech (5) | TBD (Your Idea?)  
Week 9 |  Sharing Economy (1) |  TBD (PII Law-1)  
Week 10 |  Sharing Economy (2) |  TBD (PII Law-2)  
Week 11 | HBS Case | TBD  
Week 12 |  Progress Report |  Mid-semester Progress Report (by group)  
Week 13 |  Sharing Economy (3) |  (PII Law-3)  
Week 14 | Invited Talk | TBD  
Week 15 |  Sharing Economy (4) |  (PII Law-4)  
Week 16 | Final Project Presentation I | Final Project Presentation (by group)  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_15%_
####  討論 Discussion
_15%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_30%_
####  其他： Others: 期末專案 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Evaluation**
1. COURSE PROJECT (60%)
A major part of this Master Class is working on and delivering projects. These can take one of two forms, chosen by the student.
  1. Term Paper: Students will work in teams to examine a go-going start-up project, and will have to conduct 2-3 in-depth interviews to carefully study this venture. As such, students will have a unique opportunity to gain firsthand experience working with distinguished investment firms, apply class lessons and takeaways, and have an inside view on how deals are sourced and/or executed. 
  2. Entrepreneurial Venture: Students choosing this form will work on their own start-up / entrepreneurial venture in the area of FinTech / Financial Services. This venture can either be something that has already begun development or else a well-thought out idea that students wish to pursue in depth in order to examine viability. The project for these teams will consist of a write-up of progress made on the venture during the semester, the underlying economics of the venture, and an in-depth industry analysis. When feasible, we will pair these teams with advisors from FinTech or sharing economy start-ups and VC firms, who will guide students on their venture and background research. (This option is not available for this semester)  
  
Project grading and deliverables:


A. Mid-semester progress report: By mid-semester, student teams are required to submit a 1-2 page report describing progress on their project and team dynamics. (20%) - Milestone 1
B. Group presentation: Student groups will present their findings and conclusions in a 15-minute presentation (based on a prepared PowerPoint deck) to faculty. (40%) - Milestone 2 & 3
Note: Electronic versions of the PowerPoint should be delivered _via_ course website one week before the presentation.
2. Class Participation / Cases (40%)
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
There is no textbook for this course. Relevant materials (articles, cases, class notes, news articles) as mandatory readings will be distributed in advance with TA’s assistance.  
  
HBS case(s) purchasing is needed. 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:需能解釋和佐證生成式AI產出成果 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office Hours: Wed.10-12 (by appointment)  
Note: This schedule is subject to change. Please re-visit before the semester starts. Thanks.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
NA (to be discussed in class)
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
