國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：研究方法
#####  Course Name: Research Methods
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：400876001 Course No.400876001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_5_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：傳播院學 Course Department:Communication/B/3 
  * 授課老師：蔡葵希 Instructor: COOK CHRISTINE LINDA 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12 


##  課程簡介Course Description
This is a mandatory course for IMICS students and an optional course for GCIT students. The goal of the course is to both introduce students to research methodologies within the broad field of Communication Science and give them hands-on experience analyzing data obtained from these varied study types. Students will learn about qualitative (i.e., interviews, focus groups, content analyses) and quantitative (e.g., surveys, experiments) research methodologies, their strengths and weaknesses, and how to consider both methodology and theory when engaging in study design.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 資訊處理能力：發現和界定問題、蒐集資料、分析和詮釋、呈現、傳佈和互動
  * B. 媒介能力：掌握不同媒介思維方式，並在不同情境下熟練使用並統整各種語言、傳統／數位工具以完成工作
  * C. 敘事能力：掌握受眾和情境特性，知曉如何吸引觀／聽眾，善於運用、轉換和評估符號，傳達意念，產生感動
  * D. 統合能力：具備透視表象，掌握深層結構和機制之能力，進而理解、評估、協調並統整不同議題觀點與意見
  * E. 創新能力：對社會和傳播環境變化具備敏銳之感知，善於洞察現象之深層結構，具備學習學習（learning to learn）能力，能與時俱變
  * F. 倫理能力： 遵守專業價值和倫理，具備批判思考和反省之能力，行事時知所取捨，有所為有所不為
  * G. 溝通能力：具同理心，善於傾聽與溝通，並能與他人分享見解或資訊
  * H. 實作能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  1. Students will be able to design and execute a qualitative research design.
  2. Students will be able to design and execute a quantitative research design.
  3. Students will be able to present study design ideas effectively to grant-givers and reviewers.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** |  **課程主題** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** |  **教學活動與作業**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction | 
  * Introduction to professor
  * Review syllabus

Readings: N/A |  N/A  
2 |  Basics of Study Design | 
  * Hypotheses vs. Research Questions
  * Conceptual Frameworks
  * Introduction to formatting and graphical design for papers

Readings: 1 (Chapters 2 and 7) |  Lecture  
3 |  Interview Studies – Theory | 
  * Goals and challenges of interview studies
  * Designing an interview protocol
  * Types of analyses (grounded theory, thematic analyses …)

Readings: 1 (Chapter 9) |  Lecture  
4 |  Interview Studies - Practical |  We will be executing the interview study we designed in the last class and analyzing our data. Readings: N/A |  In-class activity – bring laptop and phone!  
5 |  Focus Group Studies – Theory | 
  * Goals and challenges of simultaneous multi-participant studies
  * Designing a focus-group protocol
  * Ethics of qualitative work

Readings: 1 (Chapters 1 & 10) |  Lecture  
6 |  Focus Group Studies – Practical |  We will be executing the focus-group study we designed in the last class and analyzing our data. Readings: N/A |  In-class activity – bring laptop and phone!  
7 |  Content Analyses | 
  * Goals and challenges of content analyses
  * Types of content analyses (manual vs. automatic)
  * Reviewing content analysis literature together

Readings: 1 (Chapter 11), 2, 3, 4 |  Lecture + In-Class Activity  
8 |  Introduction to R | 
  * Learning basic R programming language
  * Uploading and editing data
  * Performing basic descriptive statistics

Readings: Course Link 1 |  Lecture + In-class Practice  
9 |  Survey Design | 
  * Goals and challenges of survey work
  * Finding existing scales and designing new questions
  * Translation procedures for surveys

Readings: 1 (Chapter 13) |  Lecture Qualitative Assignment Due by 11:59pm  
10 |  Survey Analysis |  We are going to fill out the survey we designed last week and then perform the analyses as a class. Readings: N/A |  In-class activity – bring laptop and phone!  
11 |  Experimental Design | 
  * Goals and challenges of experimental work
  * Key elements of experimental design (controls, manipulations, checks)
  * Ethics of quantitative work

Readings: 1 (Chapter 16) |  Lecture  
12 |  Experimental Practical |  We are going to complete the experiment we designed last week and then perform the analyses as a class. Readings: N/A |  In-class activity – bring laptop and phone!  
13 |  Mixed Method Research Design | 
  * Goals and challenges of mixed method work
  * How to combine qualitative and quantitative methods + common combinations
  * Reviewing mixed method literature together

Readings: 1 (Chapter 17), 5, 6, 7 |  Lecture  
14 |  Grant-Writing and Pitching | 
  * Key elements of grant-writing
  * Design of a research pitch
  * Practice time for pitching with peers

Readings: Course Link 2 |  In-class activity – bring laptop and phone!  
15 |  Final Presentations (Part 1) |  Students will give their final “grant pitch” to the class. |  Quantitative Assignment Due by 11:59pm  
16 |  Final Presentations (Part 2) |  Remaining students will give their final “grant pitch” to the class. |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_75%_
####  講述 Lecture
_5%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Grades can be expected for each assignment within 2-3 weeks of handing in the assignment. If you do not receive your grade in that timeframe (and the professor has not indicated that it will be taking longer), please contact the professor to ensure that the original submission was received.** **Due dates are important, and they are indicated in the syllabus. For every 24 hours that an assignment is late, 5% will be deducted from the assignment’s total grade, for a maximum of 20%. Assignments submitted later than 7 days late will receive a grade of 0 and will not receive feedback. Both assignments can be submitted to****christinelcook@outlook.com****via email, or by using the Google Drive provided in Class 1.** **The class will be assessed in four ways with the following weights:**
  1. **Attendance (20%)**
    1. **Because this course involves a lot of in-class activities (designing and executing studies together), attendance is required.**
    2. **The first class does not count toward this attendance score, as it is during the add/drop period.**
    3. **Each time you attend a lecture (or lecture + in-class activity) course, you get 1% added to this score (for a total of 10%). Each time you attend an in-class activity course, you get 2% added to this score (for a total of 10%).**
  2. **Qualitative Assignment (35%)**
    1. **In this assignment, students will write the method and results section of a completed qualitative study.**
    2. **Students have the option of doing a write-up for either the a) interview practical or b) the focus-group practical. If students choose to do independent study, this is also an option, but data collection will be their responsibility if they so choose.**
    3. **This is an INDIVIDUAL assignment.**
    4. **The following is the rough breakdown of grading:**
      1. **Methods Section (50% of assignment)**
        1. **Participants Sub-Section**
        2. **Procedure Sub-Section**
        3. **Materials Sub-Section**
      2. **Results Section (50% of assignment)**
        1. **Assumption Testing Sub-Section**
        2. **One Sub-Section Per Hypothesis/RQ**
  3. **Quantitative Assignment (35%)**
    1. **In this assignment, students will write the method and results section of a completed quantitative study.**
    2. **Students have the option of doing a write-up for either the a) survey practice or b) the experiment practical. If students choose to do independent study, this is also an option, but data collection will be their responsibility if they so choose.**
    3. **This is an INDIVIDUAL assignment.**
    4. **The following is the rough breakdown of grading:**
      1. **Methods Section (50% of assignment)**
        1. **Participants Sub-Section**
        2. **Procedure Sub-Section**
        3. **Materials Sub-Section**
      2. **Results Section (50% of assignment)**
        1. **Assumption Testing Sub-Section**
        2. **One Sub-Section Per Hypothesis/RQ**
  4. **Grant Pitch (10%)**
    1. **This is the final presentation of the course, but should be worked on throughout the class, as it will require you to build on themes we encounter throughout the semester.**
    2. **This is an INDIVIDUAL assignment.**
    3. **Each member of the class will have to design a social-science study involving one of the methods we covered in this class (either with or without a practical).**
    4. **During the presentation, participants must:**
      1. **Give a rough overview of the problematic**
      2. **Cover all RQ’s and/or hypotheses**
      3. **Explain the proposed methodology**
      4. **Explain the potential social impact of the study**
      5. **Do all of that within 5 minutes**
    5. **If the student cannot make the final class due to illness or bereavement (these are the only two options accepted for missing the final class), it is the student’s responsibility to schedule a make-up pitch time with the professor.**

  
---  
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  1. Croucher, S. M., & Cronn-Mills, D. (2022). _Understanding Communication Research Methods: A Theoretical and Practical Approach_ (3rd ed.). Routledge.
  2. Cook, C., Conijn, R., Schaafsma, J., & Antheunis, M. (2019). For whom the gamer trolls: A study of trolling interactions in the online gaming context. _Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication_ , _14_(6), 293-318. https://doi.org/10.1093/jcmc/zmz014
  3. Croes, E. A. J., Antheunis, M. L., Goudbeek, M. B., & Wildman, N. W. (2023). “I am in your computer while we talk to each other” a content analysis on the use of language-based strategies by humans and a social chatbot in initial human-chatbot interactions. _International Journal of Human-Computer Interaction_ , _39_(10), 2155-2173. https://doi.org/10.1080/10447318.2022.2075574
  4. Santinele Martino, A., & Moumos, E. (2022). Dating in the digital age: A content analysis of dating websites designed for disabled people. _Sexuality and Disability_ , _40_ , 461-470. https://doi.org/10.1007/s11195-022-09751-1
  5. Lin, T. T. C. (2022). Online opinions, sentiments and news framing of the first nuclear referendum in Taiwan: A mix-method approach. _Asian Journal of Communication_ , _32_(2), 152-173. https://doi.org/10.1080/01292986.2021.2022728
  6. Cai, Y., Pan, Z., Han, S., Shao, P., & Liu, M. (2022). The impact of multimodal communication on learners’ experience in a synchronous online environment: A mixed-methods study. _Online Learning Journal_ , _26_(4), 118-145. Retrieved from https://eric.ed.gov/?id=EJ1374819
  7. Liu, W., & Yao, M. (2023). Gender identity and influence in human-machine communication: A mixed-methods exploration. _Computers in Human Behavior_ , _144_ , 107750. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2023.107750

  
---  
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:AI is only permitted for proofreading purposes in this class. Any use beyond this must be discussed in advance with the professor. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
1.	Code Academy “Learn R” Course: https://www.codecademy.com/learn/learn-r Please complete the first 3 modules before course 8.
2.	SciMingo “How to Pitch Your Research So that Everyone Listens”: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z3gwFIvE87Y&ab_channel=SciMingo 

```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Friday mornings from 9:30am to 11:30am at Room 420 (4th floor) of the Research and Innovation Incubation Center (RIIC)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
N/A
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
