國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：台灣媒體中的文化多樣性與多語樣貌
#####  Course Name: Cultural Diversity and Multilingualism in Taiwan's Media
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：400862001 Course No.400862001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：傳播院學 Course Department:Communication/B/3 
  * 授課老師：葉嘉炘 Instructor: YEH CHIA-HSIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三567 Session: wed14-17


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course tries to explore the correlation between social identity and language use within the multicultural and multilingual society of Taiwan, by means of an interdisciplinary approach, not limited to social psychology, communication, and linguistics. With the advance of various media platforms and discourses, certain learner-centered teaching practices, such as reading guide, panel discussion, independent study, and learning portfolio, are adopted to help students examine their own experience of identity formation and language acquisition, define the identity-language correlation, and then build up a more culturally, linguistically diverse and friendly media environment for Taiwan.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 資訊處理能力：發現和界定問題、蒐集資料、分析和詮釋、呈現、傳佈和互動
  * B. 媒介能力：掌握不同媒介思維方式，並在不同情境下熟練使用並統整各種語言、傳統／數位工具以完成工作
  * C. 敘事能力：掌握受眾和情境特性，知曉如何吸引觀／聽眾，善於運用、轉換和評估符號，傳達意念，產生感動
  * D. 統合能力：具備透視表象，掌握深層結構和機制之能力，進而理解、評估、協調並統整不同議題觀點與意見
  * E. 創新能力：對社會和傳播環境變化具備敏銳之感知，善於洞察現象之深層結構，具備學習學習（learning to learn）能力，能與時俱變
  * F. 倫理能力： 遵守專業價值和倫理，具備批判思考和反省之能力，行事時知所取捨，有所為有所不為
  * G. 溝通能力：具同理心，善於傾聽與溝通，並能與他人分享見解或資訊
  * H. 實作能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Through the lenses of various social minorities and corresponding language issues in Taiwan’s media, this course expects learners to understand those critical determinants that shape social identity and language use on various levels, and to account for the potential correlation between the two attributes, namely how social identity impacts language use and how language use reveals social identity. By actively engaging in class discussions, assigned tasks, and individual reflections, learners should be able to (i) acquire better understanding of ideology-related conflict and language choice from an individual level, nationwide, to across the border, (ii) develop sensitivity to various minority topics and word choices, and (iii) help themselves assess their own identity development and language attitude. With these learning objectives achieved, they are expected to be better qualified for taking on media practices, enhancing cultural diversity and multilingualism in Taiwan’s media.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
This course generally divides into three dimensions to examine the correlation between social identity and language use: (i) intrapersonal level, referring to individual experience of first and second language acquisition, (ii) interpersonal level, referring to language attitude toward various social minorities, and (iii) public level, referring to controversial language issues. On the intrapersonal level, the theory of social identity and the sociolinguistic parameters of language attitude are introduced first, followed by the case studies on first and second language acquisition to help learners conceptualize how social identity and language use are correlated through their own experience. The case studies of first and second languages might vary from Mandarin Chinese, Hakka, Southern Min (Taiwanese), indigenous languages, to other Asian languages and foreign languages, depending on each leaner’s identity and choice. Among all these interests, Mandarin Chinese and English are going to be highlighted. On the interpersonal level, Taiwan’s first residents (indigenous peoples), early immigrants (Southern Min and Hakka), and new residents (migrant workers and expatriates) account for the case studies on social identity and language ideology. On the public level, other social minorities (gender minority, ageism, and people with physical/ mental impairment) and speech freedom are focused. Based on the framework of social identity theory and language ideology, learners are required to understand key terms and critical implications, to discuss about relevant cases from various media contexts, and to reflect their own language use and attitude.
**Date** |  **Topics** |  **Notes & Assignments**  
---|---|---  
Week1：9/3 |  Course Introduction: Syllabus, schedule, and requirements |   
Week2：9/10 |  Social Identity Theory: Taiwan Images, Identity Issues, Five Core Ethnic Groups in Taiwan & Intergroup Relations |   
Week3：9/17 |  Cultivation Theory, Stereotype/ Stereotype Threat, and Social Identity: Terminology, examples, and implications for social conflicts and identity development |   
Week4：9/24 |  Language Use, Language Attitude and Ideology: Taiwan’s ‘National’ Languages and Language Policy |   
Week5：10/1 |  ‘Chinese’ Languages, Dialects, Mandarin Varieties, and Other Language Issues in Taiwan |   
Week6：10/8 |  Second Languages, Bilingualism, Bilingual ‘~~Nation~~ ’ Policy, Code- Switching, and Other Language Issues in Taiwan |   
Week7：10/15 |  **_Independent Study I_** : Language acquisition, language use/ choice, language policy, **_or_** language attitudes |   
Week8：10/22 |  -First Nations & Indigenous Peoples: Stereotypes, social issues, mocking accents, and language revitalization (language nest) |  Mid-Term Week  
Week9：10/29 |  -Early Immigrants (Hakka & Hokkien): Stereotypes, model minority, identity issues, and language ideology |   
Week10：11/5 |  -Late Immigrants/ WàiShĕngRén & New Residents/ Immigrants: Stereotypes, social issues, speech accents, replacement theory and identity negotiations |   
Week11：11/12 |  **_Independent Study II_** : Linguicism, non-native accents, **_or_** mock accents (i.e. Mockney, Mock Hakka, etc.) |   
Week12：11/19 |  **_Guest Speech_** on ‘Stereotypes and Cultural Identity of Foods’ by Prof Wu-Ken SHIH |   
Week13：11/26 |  -Gender Minorities and Gendered Speech Style: Stereotypes, social issues, and language personalities |   
Week14：12/3 |  -Aged Society and Language Change: Stereotypes, social issues, Gen Z, and politically correct terms |   
Week15：12/10 |  **_Independent Study III_** : Impacts of AI applications and current geopolitical dynamics on social identity and language use |   
Week16：12/17 |  **Final Presentations** on (i) the correlation between social identity & language use/ choice **_and_** (ii) the potential effect of AI applications & geopolitical dynamics on the correlation |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_20%_
####  其他： Others: Student Presentations 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
(i) Class Participation & Panel Discussions: **20%**
Attendance is not necessary only if someone can finish all class requirements in a timely manner. As one cannot attend some class, please keep the instructor/ TA informed via email before the class. Each one could have two excuses to be absent from the regular classes; otherwise, provide with a reasonable proof for absence. During the classes, positively engaging in class activities of various forms will definitely help establish a more ideal and comfortable learning environment for all of us.
(ii) Reading Guide & Independent Study: **30%**
Each student is required to practice two individual presentations in class, one for briefing a paper selected from weekly required readings below and the other for conducting an independent study on relevant language issues that the presenter feels interested in or consider to be critical. The sign-up schedule for in-class presentations shall be announced online shortly after the add-drop period (Week 2).
The presentation of guided readings should include: (1) generalizing each full paper in a simple, perspicuous way, (2) explaining research methods used, analyses adopted, data and findings provided, _and_ (3) providing 1 to 2 potential issues/topics for discussion or a follow-up Q&A session, ideally 15 to 20 mins long.
The independent study on relevant language issues could focus on: (1) descriptive analysis of various media contents (i.e., news article, commercials, live-streaming programs, short clips, movies, etc.), (2) presentation of one research article (i.e., public survey/report, academic paper, etc.), _or_ (3) self-constructed study on some specific issue, ideally 15 to 20 mins long.
(iii) Assignments: **30%**
**-(1) Self Evaluation on Language Competence:** evaluate one’s own language competence (i.e., communication and literacy skills) by means of various criteria (i.e., subjective and objective scales) in 250 to 300 words. Submission deadline: Oct 8th (Week 5)
**-(2) Self Evaluation on Language Attitudes:** evaluate one’s own language choices by means of various attitudinal dimensions (i.e., solidarity and status parameters) in 250 to 300 words. Submission deadline: Oct 29th (Week 8)
**-(3) Reflections on Guest Speech:** after the guest speech, please share one’s own reflections on the topic as an essay, highlighting at least three key takeaways and interpreting them in your own words (i.e., summary as a topic sentence, three takeaways and your interpretations, personal thoughts, and concluding remarks, 250 to 300 words). Submission deadline: Dec 3rd (Week 13)
(vi) Final Presentation: **20%**
Based on your own language use and experience, (i) try to evaluate the correlation between social identity and language use on a five-point scale, with five indicating the highest degree and with one as the lowest, (ii) provide three to five arguments for such an evaluation, **_and_** (iii) predict two to three potential effects of AI applications on the correlation between social identity and language use in approximately 8 to 10 mins (Week 16).
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Week02/03:
2-1: Tajfel, Henri. & Turner, C. John. (1979). An integrative theory of intergroup conflict. In William G. Austin & Stephen Worchel (Eds.),_The Social Psychology of Intergroup Relations, 33-47._ Monterey, CA: Brooks/Cole.
2-2: Stangor, Charles., Jhangiani, Rajiv. & Tarry, Hammond. (2014). Stereotypes, Prejudice, and Discrimination. In Charles Stangor, Rajiv Jhangiani & Hammond Tarry (Eds.), _Principles of Social Psychology- 1st International Edition._ BCcampus OpenEd, Minneapolis: Open Textbook Library.
2-3: Wei, Jennifer M. (2008). _Language Choice and Identity Politics_. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield Pub Inc.
Week04:
4-1: Marko Dragojevic , Fabio Fasoli, Jennifer Cramer, and Tamara Rakić (2021). Toward a Century of Language Attitudes Research: Looking Back and Moving Forward. Journal of Language and Social Psychology, 2021, Vol. 40(1) 60–79.
4-2: Albury, N. J. (2020). Language attitudes and ideologies on linguistic diversity. In A. C. Schalley & S. A. Eisenchlas (Eds.), Handbooks of Applied Linguistics (pp. 357-376). Berlin/Boston: De Gruyter Mouton. doi:10.1515/9781501510175-018
4-3: Yeh, Hsi-Nan., Chan, Hui-Chen. & Cheng, Yuh-Show. (2004). Language Use in Taiwan: Language Proficiency and Domain Analysis. _Journal of Taiwan Normal University: Humanities & Social Sciences_, 49 (1), 75-108.
Week05:
5-1**(CHS)** : Khoo, Hui-Lu. (2019). The Language Attitudes in Post Guoyu Movement Era in Taiwan- A Study of Taiwanese Young People’s Attitudes Towards Five Mandarin Varieties. _Journal of Taiwanese Languages and Literature_ , 14 (2), 217-253.
5-2: Fan, Yu Cheng. (2024). _Convergence or Divergence: Taiwanese Mandarin Speakers’ Language Knowledge and Language Attitudes Toward Beijing Mandarin Terms, Media Consumption, and Political Leanings_ (Unpublished master’s thesis). National Chengchi University: Taipei City, Taiwan.
5-3: Liu, Chun-Hung. (2018). _Taiwanese University Students’ Language Attitude Towards English, Mandarin, and Southern-Min_ (Unpublished master’s thesis). Providence University: Taichung City, Taiwan.
Week06:
6-1: Rigby, Kaitlin A. (2021). _Evolution and Impact of English Language Policy in Taiwan_ (Unpublished honors theses). University of Mississippi: Oxford, MS.
6-2: Ngangbam, Shantikumar Meetei. (2022). Taiwan’s Bilingual Nation Policy 2030: Concerned Issues and Suggestions. _European Journal of Literature, Language and Linguistics Studies_ , 6 (2), 1-18.
6-3: Tu, Ching-Yi C. (2008). _Language Attitudes towards English Code-Mixing in Mandarin Newspapers in Taiwan: A Study in Keelung and Taipei Areas_ (Unpublished master’s thesis). Fu Jen Catholic University: New Taipei City, Taiwan.
Week08:
8-1: Yang, Chen-Yi. (2018). _A Study of Taiwan’s Junior High Students’ Language Proficiency, Use, and Attitude: Mandarin Chinese, Indigenous Languages, and English_ (Unpublished PhD Dissertation). National Tsing Hua University: Hsinchu City, Taiwan.
8-2: Chambers, Natalie A. (2015). Language nests as an emergent global phenomenon: Diverse approaches to program development and delivery. _The International Journal of Holistic Early Learning and Development_ , 1, 25-38.
8-3 **(CHS)** : Her, One-Soon. (2009). Language and Group Identity: On Taiwan Mainlanders’ Mother Tongues and Taiwan Mandarin. _Language and Linguistics_ , 10 (2), 375-419.
8-4: Klöter, Henning. (2004). Language Policy in the KMT and DPP Eras. _China Perspectives_ , 56. https://doi.org/ 10.4000/chinaperspectives.442
Week09:
9-1: Vollmann, Ralf & Soon, Tek Wooi. (2022). Convergence of Hakka with Chinese in Taiwan. _Global Chinese_ , 8 (2), 211–229.
9-2: Chang, Han-Pi & Chang, Chen-Chi. (2020). The Generation Gap in Hakka Language Use and Ethnic Identity. _Hakka Research_ , 13 (1), 51-96.
9-3 **(CHS)** : Li, Song Shan. (2010). _The Use of Southern Min (Taiwanese) Terms in Taiwan’s Newspaper Headlines: A Case in United Daily from July 2006 to June 2008_ (Unpublished master’s thesis). National Taiwan Normal University: Taipei City, Taiwan.
Week10:
10-1 **(CHS)** : Li, Song Shan. (2010). _The Use of Southern Min (Taiwanese) Terms in Taiwan’s Newspaper Headlines: A Case in United Daily from July 2006 to June 2008_ (Unpublished master’s thesis). National Taiwan Normal University: Taipei City, Taiwan.
10-2: Lin, Hsiao-Chun. (2023). An Exploration of Taiwanese Multilingual Students’ Linguistic Identities. _Linguistics and Education_ , 78: 101248. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.linged.2023.101248
10-3: Hansen, Fedrik. (2022). _Non-native Mandarin Accents and Representation of Indonesians in Taiwan_ (Unpublished master’s thesis). National Chengchi University: Taipei City, Taiwan.
10-4**(CHS)** : Chen, Chih-Jou & Ng, Ka-u. (2017). Public Attitudes toward Marriage Migrants in Taiwan: The Ten-Year Change, 2004–2014._Journal of Social Sciences and Philosophy_ , 29 (3), 415–452.
10-5: Li, Zhiyu. (2020). Inclusive or Exclusive: Dual Identity and Divergence of Attitudes Towards Immigrants in Taiwan. SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=4235718 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.4235718
Week13:
13-1: Popp, Danielle., Donovan, Roxanne A., Crawford, Mary., Marsh, Kerry L. & Peele, Melanie. (2003). Gender, Race, and Speech Style Stereotypes. _Sex Roles_ , 48 (7/8), 317-325.
13-2: Chang, Heng-hao & Wang, Jing-yi. (2016). From “Handicapped” to “Disabled”: A Content Analysis of Disability Labels and Discourse in Taiwanese Newspapers. _Taiwanese Sociology_ , 31, 1-41.
13-3: Halmari, Helena. (2011). Political correctness, euphemism, and language change: The case of ‘people first’. _Journal of Pragmatics_ , 43 (3), 828-840.
Week14:
14-1 **(CHS)** : Lien, Shu-Chin. (2012). The Analysis of the Portrayals of Older Characters on Television Commercials. _Journal of Audio-visual Media and Technologies_ , 35, 27-56.
14-2: Sankoff, Gillian. (2019). Language change across the lifespan: Three trajectory types. _Language_ , 95 (2), 197-229.
*Noted: The syllabus is simply tentative, which the instructor has rights to change throughout the semester. Please follow the weekly pre-/post-class notes for the latest update accordingly.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Using ChatGPT, OpenAI or any sort of ‘citation apps’ is considered an efficient way of data collection, but the information retrieved needs to be revised and paraphrased accordingly. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment only. Conventionally, one hour before or after the class.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
