國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：英文採訪寫作
#####  Course Name: English Reporting & Writing
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：401041011 Course No.401041011


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：新聞四 Course Department:Journalism/B/4 
  * 授課老師：呂志翔 Instructor: LU CHIH-HSIANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
**This course introduces students to the basics of news reporting and writing, focusing on building language skills and understanding journalistic principles and developing a comprehensive global mindset. Students will engage in practical exercises to develop their writing, reporting, and communication abilities in English.**
  1. Integration of cutting-edge AI tools (ChatGPT), digital technologies (multi-media) and traditional news reporting and writing.
  2. Techniques of information gathering, which includes doing research, routine reporting, conducting interview, etc.
  3. Impact of misinformation and disinformation, and importance of media literacy (fake news, cyber warfare, influencers)
  4. Verification, verification, verification.
  5. How to write a good news story and analysis in English: Inverted pyramid and narrative style, review of 5 Ws and 1 H.
  6. Reading, translating, analyzing foreign news articles, and more practices of writing.
  7. Globalization, Internationalization and international perspective.
  8. What does it take to become a competent overseas correspondent?
  9. Journalistic ethics and integrity.


###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 培養表達、敍事、溝通的能力
  * B. 精熟與應用傳播學理的能力
  * C. 培育數位時代的專業素養
  * D. 陶鑄敬業精神、專業倫理與全球視野
  * E. 創新與創業能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Course Objectives and Learning Outcomes
This 16-week course provides a comprehensive framework for learning news reporting and writing to non-native English speakers. The course also allows for deeper exploration of topics, more practical applications, and ongoing language support, ensuring students not only grasp journalistic concepts but also improve their English language skills in a very supportive environment.
At the juncture of unprecedented changes never seen before, shall the traditional teaching and learning English-language News Reporting and Writing be necessary for students? Some students may be hesitant to select the course, because they think generative AI can provide help and can be extremely helpful and instrumental. To answer the one-million-dollar question, all major studies indicated that ChatGPT cannot, and will not, replace teachers for various reasons, such as AI is still premature in handing human interactions, obvious accuracy and bias risk, and a lack of understanding of context.
With that in mind, we firmly believe that News Reporting and writing is irreplaceable for all students major in journalism. Then comes the second question, why bother to take extra courses of English-language reporting and writing, since we have already taken class after class of news writing and reporting in Chinese.
Other than language itself, due to different concepts and working models, the writing styles of Taiwan and Western countries are not totally identical.
In addition, the ever-changing digital technology upends news media landscape and ecology and pose extreme challenges to students in J school. Traditional academic teaching is inadequate to equip students to cope with the daunting tasks they will take in the future. I therefore hope that my background as a veteran journalist can compensate that inadequacy by highlighting these uniqueness listed below:
  * The utmost important goal of the class is to build students’ all-round (全方位)global perspective and encourage them to be proactive in pursuing their career, particularly in the field of international news.
  * With almost 20 years of experience in covering global news in strategic locations such as Washington DC, San Francisco, and Geneva, Switzerland, my teaching will emphasize on empirical experience rather than on textbooks, classroom theories, giving students real sense of competitiveness in journalism.
  * Through reading, lectures, discussions, assignments, on-site practices, and presentations will gradually develop their communications skill and writing technique, which are vital to their career.
  * Through more discussion and dialogue than mere lecturing in the classroom, students will be become more confident, independent, and critical, which are required quality for successful journalists.


“Learning by doing” is the motto of the class.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
週次 |  課程主題 |  課程內容與指定閱讀 |  教學活動與作業  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  **Introduction to Journalism and orientation** |  **See attachment** |  **See attachment**  
2 |  **Understanding News Values** |  **See attachment** |  **See attachment**  
3 |  **Social media, AI and ChatGPT** |  **See attachment** |  **See attachment**  
4 |  **Research Techniques** |  **See attachment** |  **See attachment**  
5 |  **Interviewing Skills** |  **See attachment** |  **See attachment**  
6 |  **Writing Basics I** |  **See attachment** |  **See attachment**  
7 |  **Writing Basics II** |  **See attachment** |  **See attachment**  
8 |  **Mid-term exam.** |  **To be decided** |   
9 |  **Ethics in Journalism** |  **See attachment** |  **See attachment**  
**10** |  **Types of News Stories, Feature Writing and News Analysis** |  **See attachment** |  **See attachment**  
**11** |  **Multimedia in Journalism** **Writing for Difference Mediums** |  **See attachment** |  **See attachment**  
**12** |  **Legal Aspect of Reporting: Fake News** |  **See attachment** |  **See attachment**  
**13** |  **Practical Reporting** |  **See attachment** |  **See attachment**  
**14** |  **Future Orientation, a competent and competitive journalist** |  **See attachment** |  **See attachment**  
**15** |  **Final Project Preparation** |  **To be decided** |   
**16** |  **Final term exam** |  **To be decided** |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_35%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_15%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_15%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_5%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Good preparation for class, full participation, completion and high quality of all assignments and projects, active engagement and interaction with teacher and classmates. Independent and critical thinking and articulate presentations are required.
Midterm and final exam 50%
Weekly assignments 20%
Current affairs knowledge and common sense 15%
Attendance and participation 15%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Material prepared by the lecturer along with these reference materials listed below:
Bass, Frank. The Associated Press Guide to Internet Research & Reporting. Massachusetts: Perseus Publishing, 2001.
Cappon, Rene J. The Associate Press Guide to News Writing. 2nd edition. Connecticut: Thomas Learning Inc., 1991.
Christian, Darrel., et al. The Associate Press Stylebook and Briefing on Media Law 2009. New York: Basic Book, 2009.
Felder, Fred, et al. Reporting for the Media. 8th edition. New York: Oxford University Press, 2005.
Fox, Walter. Writing the News: A Guide for Print Journalism. Iowa: Iowa State University Press, 1993.
Hart, Jack R. A Writer's Coach: An Editor's Guide to Words That Work. New York: Pantheon Book, 2006.
Ireton, Cherilyn and Posetti, Julie. Journalism, Fake News & Disinformation: Handbook for Journalism Education and Training. UNESCO, 2018
Itule, Bruce D. and Anderson Douglas A. News Writing and Reporting for Today’s Media. 
Boston : McGraw-Hill, 2007
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:依授課教師課堂規定。 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
All major news media and network websites (CNN, BBC, New York Times, Washington Post), official websites of government agencies, such as White House, State Department of the United States, and Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Taiwan. Government officials’ personal accounts with social media platform, such as FB, X, Truth Social.
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
e-mail洽詢授課教師。
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
