國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：電子遊戲與社會
#####  Course Name: Digital Games and Society
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：461888001 Course No.461888001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_19_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國傳碩一、國傳碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in International Communication Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：林日璇 Instructor: LIN JIH HSUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一D56 Session: mon13-16 


##  課程簡介Course Description
此為英語授課/This course is taught in English
The seminar in Digital Games and Society will focus on the development of theories and research trends/topics in digital game literature. Students will learn how digital game research evolve in communication research. In addition, students will examine phenomena and their effects on human well-being, cognition, and emotions. Furthermore, we will look at how different areas employ digital games as a persuasive and educational tool and identity experiment.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 基礎研究能力Research Foundations
  * B. 組織管理能力Organization & Management
  * C. 跨文化傳播能力Cross-cultural Communication
  * D. 表達與實踐能力Communication & Execution
  * E. 區域研究能力Regional Studies


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The goals of the course are threefold: First, understand the seminal constructs in digital games. In addition, be familiar with related research published in “flagship” journals including Journal of Communication, Communication Research, Human Communication Research. Mainstream journals dedicated digital games including Media Psychology, Journal of Computer Mediated Communication, New Media and Society, Cyberpsychology, Behavior, and Social Networking, and Computers in Human Behavior. Second, be able to critically analyze and interpret how scholars in these fields frame research issues and investigate the effects of these two media on human being. Third, be able to build logical and precise argument to contribute to advance the knowledge of these two fields, theoretically and empirically. All students should be able to propose a clear-designed, well-argued research proposal at the end of the semester.
**Criteria/Requirements:**
_For graduate students_ : Research paper is expected for graduate students as the term projects. You are welcome to do the term project individually or with a group of other students. In addition, graduate students have to prepare to the lead the course discussion and summarize the papers assigned for readings. Please use lots of examples/news stories to link to the theory.
_For undergraduate students_ : You can choose to do literature review in chosen topic or design a game (exergame, advergame, serious game, VR game) for your term project. You are welcome to do the term project individually or with a group of other students. You are expected to engage in course discussion, and try to learn to do the course leading.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
  * **課程預計進度**

**Week** |  **Date** |  **Required Readings**  
---|---|---  
1 |  9/9 |  **Introduction to class****： (Dr. Tammy Lin)** **Video games as a field in communication**
  1. Applications of games 
  2. Game as an important role in Web 3.0 and metaverse
  3. Origins of digital games

  
2 |  9/16 |  Game, play, development of digital games (Taught by Dr. Jih-Hsuan Tammy Lin)
  1. Quandt, T., Van Looy, J., Vogelgesang, J., Elson, M., Ivory, J. D., Consalvo, M., & Mäyrä, F. (2015). Digital games research: a survey study on an emerging field and its prevalent debates.  _Journal of Communication_ ,  _65_(6), 975-996.
  2. Elson, M., Breuer, J., Ivory, J. D., & Quandt, T. (2014). More than stories with buttons: Narrative, mechanics, and context as determinants of player experience in digital games. _Journal of Communication, 64_(3), 521–542. 
  3. Vorderer, P., & Reinecke, L. (2015). From mood to meaning: The changing model of the user in entertainment research.  _Communication Theory_ ,  _25_(4), 447-453.
  4. Tamborini, R., Bowman, N. D., Eden, A., Grizzard, M., & Organ, A. (2010). Defining media enjoyment as the satisfaction of intrinsic needs. _Journal of Communication, 60_ , 758-777. 
  5. Reinecke, L., Tamborini, R., Grizzard, M., Lewis, R., Eden, A., & David Bowman, N. (2012). Characterizing mood management as need satisfaction: The effects of intrinsic needs on selective exposure and mood repair.  _Journal of Communication_ ,  _62_(3), 437-453.

  
3 |  9/23 |  Technology in console games: Motion-sensing systems.  Let’s Play! Meet at Room 320 or VR Zone  Virtual reality Content and design  
4 |  9/30 |  Virtual reality and games (by Jih-Hsuan Tammy Lin)
  1. Lin, J.-H., Wu, D.-Y.;Tao, C.-C., (2018). So scary, yet so fun: the role of self-efficacy in enjoyment of a virtual reality horror game. _New Media and Society, 20_ , 3223-3242.
  2. Lin, J.-H., 2017.07, 'Fear in Virtual Reality (VR): Fear elements, coping reactions, immediate and next-day fright responses toward a survival horror zombie virtual reality game. _Computers in Human Behavior, 72_ , 350-361.
  3. Lin, J.-H., Wu, D. Y., & Bowman, N. (2023). Beat Saber as Virtual Reality Exercising in 360 Degrees: A Moderated Mediation Model of VR Playable Angles on Physiological and Psychological Outcomes _. Media Psychology, 26_(4), 414-435.

  
5 |  10/7 |  Interactivity as demand, cognitive demand (online session 1) by Nick Bowman (包尼克), Syracuse University 
  1. Bowman, N. D. (2016). Video gaming as co-production. In R. Lind (Ed.), Produsing 2.0: The intersection of audiences and production in a digital world (Vol. 2, pp. 107-123). Peter Lang Publishing.
  2. Bowman, N. D. (2018). _Video games: A medium that demands our attention._ Routledge.  
(Read chapters 1, 2, 5, and 13 partial)
  3. Bowman, N. D. (2019) Video games as demanding technologies. _Media & Communication, 7_(4), 144-148. 

  
6 |  10/14 |  Violence and digital games & Character identification, player-avatar relationship as mechanisms
  1. Klimmt, C., Hefner, D., & Vorderer, P. (2009). The Video Game Experience as "True" Identification: A Theory of Enjoyable Alterations of Players' Self-Perception. _Communication Theory, 19_(4).
  2. Lin, J. H. (2013). Identification matters: A moderated mediation model of media interactivity, character identification, and video game violence on aggression. _Journal of Communication, 63_ , 682-702. doi: 10.1111/jcom.12044
  3. Barlett, C. P., Anderson, C. A., & Swing, E. L. (2009). Video game effects-confirmed, suspected, and speculative: A review of the evidence. _Simulation Gaming, 40_(3), 377-403.

  
7 |  10/21 |  Esports and game streaming (Definition of game streaming and related research; industry overview; Documentary: Free to play )  
(By Dr. Jih-Hsuan Tammy Lin) 
  1. Cheung, G., & Huang, J. (2011, May). Starcraft from the stands: understanding the game spectator. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (pp. 763-772). ACM.
  2. Lin, J-H., Bowman, N. D., Lin, S-F., & Chen, Y-S (2019). Setting the digital stage: Defining game streaming as an entertainment experience. _Entertainment Computing, 31_. 
  3. Brown, K. A., Billings, A. C., Lewis, M., & Bissell, K. (2018). Explicating the electricity of eSports: Motivations for play and consumption. In N. D. Bowman (Ed.), _Video games: A medium that demands our attention._ Routledge

  
8 |  10/28 |  Interactivity as demand—emotional demand (online session 2) by Nick Bowman (包尼克), Syracuse University 
  1. Bowman, N. D. (2018). _Video games: A medium that demands our attention._ Routledge.  
(Read chapters 4, 5, 7, and 13 partial)
  2. Hemenover, S. H. & Bowman, N. D. (2018). Video games, emotion, and emotion regulation: Expanding the scope. _Annals of the International Communication Association, 42_(2), 125-143. 
  3. Bowman, N. D. & Tamborini, R. (2015). “In the mood to game”: Selective exposure and mood management processes in computer game play. _New Media & Society, 17_(3), 375-393. 

  
9 |  11/4 |  VR zone experience or Spatial Computing for games  Maloney, D., Freeman, G., & Wohn, D. Y. (2020). " Talking without a Voice" Understanding Non-verbal Communication in Social Virtual Reality.  _Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction_ ,  _4_(CSCW2), 1-25. *Motion-based VR  *Cooperative VR *Action-motion VR  
10 |  11/11 |  Advergames and Games for health (will feature related projects and research regarding using games for advertising persuasion)  Newsgames: Games for news  
(By Dr. Jih-Hsuan Tammy Lin)  

  1. van Reijmersdal, E. A., Rozendaal, E., & Buijzen, M. (2012). Effects of prominence, involvement, and persuasion knowledge on children's cognitive and affective responses to advergames._Journal of Interactive Marketing, 26_(1), 33–42.
  2. Peng, W., Lin, J. H., Pfeiffer, K., & Winn, B. (2012). Need satisfaction supportive game features as motivational determinants: An experimental study of a self-determination theory guided exergame. _Media Psychology, 15_ , 175-196.
  3. Peng, W., Lee, M., & Heeter, C. (2010). The effects of a serious game on role-taking and willingness to help. _Journal of Communication, 60_(4), 723-742. 
  4. Lin, J.-H., & Wu, D.-W. (2020). Newsgames for the greater good: The effects of graphic realism and geographic proximity on knowledge acquisition and willingness to help._Journalism and Mass Communication Quarterly, 97_(1), 30-51 _._

  
11 |  11/18 |  Final project chat/talk/counseling 晤談 (In class)  
12 |  11/25 |  Interactivity-as-demand, exertional demand in person, sessions 3 and 4) by Nick Bowman (包尼克), Syracuse University 
  1. Bowman, N. D. (2018). _Video games: A medium that demands our attention._ Routledge.  
(Read chapters 6 and 13 partial)
  2. Bowman, N. D., Liebold, B., & Pietschmann, D. (2017). The Golden (Hands) Rule: Exploring user experiences with gamepad and natural-user interfaces in popular video games. _Journal of Gaming and Virtual Worlds, 19_(1), 69-83.

Liebold, B., Bowman, N. D., & Pietschmann, D. (2020). Natural in the eyes of the (be)holder: A survey on novelty and learning effects in the enjoyment of naturally mapped video game controllers. _Psychology of Popular Media Culture, 9_(2), 255-265.  
  
NOTE: In the same week, Nick Bowman will offer another session for personal meetings, for term projects晤談  
13 |  12/2 |  Online talk: Christine Cook Topic: Trolling and uncivil behaviors in digital games  
14 |  12/9 |  Session 5: Interactivity-as-demand, social demand (online session 5) by Nick Bowman (包尼克), Syracuse University
  1. Bowman, N. D. (2018). _Video games: A medium that demands our attention._ Routledge.  
(Read chapters 8, 9, 10, and 13 partial)
  2. Bowman, N. D., Weber, R., Tamborini, R., & Sherry, J. L. (2013). Facilitating game play: How others affect performance at and enjoyment of video games. _Media Psychology, 16_(1), 39-64. 
  3. Bowman, N. D., Rieger, D., & Lin, J-H. T. (2022). Social video gaming and well-being. _Current Opinions in Psychology, 45._

  
15 |  12/16 |  Session 6: Sense of place and nostalgia in games  (online session 6) by Nick Bowman (包尼克), Syracuse University 
  1. Bowman, N. D., & Wulf, T. (2023). Nostalgia in video games. _Current Opinions in Psychology, 49. ._
  2. Bowman, N. D., Banks, J., & Rittenour, C. (2020). Country Roads through 1s and 0s: Sense of place for and recognition of West Virginia following long-term engagement with Fallout 76. _Technology, Mind, & Behavior, 1_(1).
  3. Robinson, J., & Bowman, N. D. (2021). Returning to Azeroth: Nostalgia, sense of place, and social presence in World of Warcraft Classic. _Games & Culture, 17_(3). 421-444. 
  4. Wulf, T., Bowman, N. D., Rieger, D., Velez, J., & Breuer, J. (2018). Video games as time machines: Video game nostalgia and the return of old gaming content and technologies. _Media and Communication, 6_(2), 60-68.

  
16 |  12/23 |  Final project presentation   
17 |  12/30 |  Flexible week—writing paper  
18 |  1/6 |  Flexible week—final paper submission  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_10%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_30%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class Participation and after-class activities 50
Midterm bibliography 10
Original Research Paper 40 (Presentation 15, paper 25)
Extra Credit up to 5%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Please see the attached course syllabus
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Resources
Games for health, http://www.gamesforhealth.org
Games for change, http://www.gamesforchange.org
Gamification: http://www.gamification.co/blog/
Health Games Research, http://www.healthgamesresearch.org/database
Lumosity (brain games): http://www.lumosity.com/
Newsgaming: http://www.newsgaming.com/
Persuasive games, http://www.persuasivegames.com
Persuasive Technology Lab, http://captology.stanford.edu
Serious game initiative, http://www.seriousgames.org/index2.html
Serious games summit, http://www.seriousgamessummit.com/
Water cooler games, http://www.watercoolergames.org
Pokemon Go! https://docs.google.com/document/d/1xYuozfkON-RVZQkr7d1qLPJrCRqN8TkzeDySM-3pzeA/mobilebasic?pli=1

```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/07/11 2025Final Syllabus_Tammy Final.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Immediately after class, or by email appointment
*You have to attend the first week of the this course in order to take this class.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
馬淑靖
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
