國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：整合行銷傳播
#####  Course Name: Integrated Marketing Communications
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：463875001 Course No.463875001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_3_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：傳播博一、傳播博二 Course Department:Ph.D Program in Communication/D/1&2 
  * 授課老師：張郁敏 Instructor: CHANG YUHMIIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16 


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed for students aspiring to become researchers, decision-makers, and strategic planners in the field of Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC). Through selected readings and in-depth class discussions, students will engage with both practical applications and theoretical foundations of IMC. The course aims to provide a comprehensive understanding of the IMC paradigm, equipping students with the knowledge and critical thinking skills necessary to navigate the evolving marketing landscape.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 瞭解傳播學理論、文獻與相關學術發展
  * B. 創新、獨立思辨與探析問題的能力
  * C. 精研、判讀與充分掌握傳播專業知識
  * D. 傳播教研與實踐的能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is structured to achieve the following objectives:
  1. Deepen students’ understanding of core IMC concepts, including brand equity, marketing communication tools, touchpoints, customer journey, tool/media/message integration, synergy, and media multitasking.
  2. Introduce contemporary theories and key literature in the IMC field.
  3. Prepare students to apply these concepts and theories to both industry practices and research planning, with a focus on the evolving landscape of AI-driven marketing.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
# Week
| 
# Date
|  **Topic and Reading**  
---|---|---  
|  9/02 |  **Course Introduction** **Team Formed** **Weekly Facilitator Determined**  
|  9/09 |  **IMC: Overview**
  * Ahmad, A., Salleh, S. Md., a/l Permual, S., Porcu, L., & Ahmad, W. (2024). Unveiling the drivers and outcomes of IMC capability: insights from consumer market companies in Pakistan. International Journal of Advertising, 44(2), 359–392. https://doi.org/10.1080/02650487.2024.2398302
  * Rashkova, Y., Moi, L., Marku, E., & Cabiddu, F. (2024). Online integrated marketing communication strategies of international brands: standardization vs. adaptation approaches.  _Journal of Marketing Communications_ ,  _30_(7), 810-833.

  
|  9/16 |  **IMC and Brand**
  * Amaral, N. B., & Redden, J. P. (2024). Battle of the Brand: Brand Attachment Inoculates Against the Negative Effects of Ad Repetition. Journal of Advertising, 1–16. https://doi.org/10.1080/00913367.2024.2328585
  * Cornwell, T. B., Humphreys, M. S., & Kwon, Y. (2022). Shared Brand Equity. Journal of Advertising, 52(3), 311–329. https://doi.org/10.1080/00913367.2022.2131656

  
|  9/23 |  **Customer Journey (CJ) & Customer Experience (CX)**
  * Lemon, K. N., & Verhoef, P. C. (2016, November). Understanding customer experience throughout the customer journey. Journal of Marketing, 80, 69-96. 
  * Hardcastle, K., Vorster, L., & Brown, D. M. (2025). Understanding Customer Responses to AI-Driven Personalized Journeys: Impacts on the Customer Experience. Journal of Advertising, 1–20. https://doi.org/10.1080/00913367.2025.2460985

  
|  9/30 |  **AI and Information Processing**  
|  10/07 |  **Tool Integration**
  * Corkindale, D., Neale, M., & Bellman, S. (2021). Product Placement and Integrated Marketing Communications Effects on an Informational TV Program. Journal of Advertising, 52(1), 75–93. https://doi.org/10.1080/00913367.2021.1981500
  * Liu, F., LeBlanc, H. P., Kanso, A., & Nelson, R. (2022). Improving the media mix: how promotional products enhance advertising impact. Journal of Marketing Communications, 29(6), 577–596. https://doi.org/10.1080/13527266.2022.2054850

  
|  10/14 |  **Media Integration**
  * Yoon, H. J., Lee, Y. J., & Sun, S. (2024). Decoding demarketing advertising effects through the IMC lens: the role of earned and paid media. International Journal of Advertising, 43(8), 1366–1391. https://doi.org/10.1080/02650487.2024.2312751
  * Hatzithomas, L., Theodorakioglou, F., Margariti, K., & Boutsouki, C. (2023). Cross-media advertising strategies and brand attitude: the role of cognitive load. International Journal of Advertising, 43(4), 603–636. https://doi.org/10.1080/02650487.2023.2249342

  
|  10/21 |  **Term Paper Discussion: Introduction & Theoretical Framework**  
|  10/28 |  **Term Paper Presentation: Introduction & Theoretical Framework**  
|  11/04 |  **Media Multitasking**
  * Theodorakioglou, F., Hatzithomas, L., & Boutsouki, C. (2022). The impact of sequential versus simultaneous media exposure on online advertising effectiveness.  _Journal of Marketing Communications_ ,  _29_(2), 101–117. https://doi.org/10.1080/13527266.2022.2154055
  * Kim, H., & Cheon, H. J. (2025). Using Unfamiliar Cues to Engage Multitasking Audiences: Giving Attentional Breakthrough. Journal of Advertising Research, 1-15.

  
|  11/11 |  **Synced Advertising**
  * Segijn, C. M., & Voorveld, H. A. M. (2020). A first step in unraveling synced advertising effectiveness. International Journal of Advertising, 40(1), 124–143. https://doi.org/10.1080/02650487.2020.1778279
  * Segijn, C. M., Voorveld, H. A. M., & Vakeel, K. A. (2021). The Role of Ad Sequence and Privacy Concerns in Personalized Advertising: An Eye-Tracking Study into Synced Advertising Effects. Journal of Advertising, 50(3), 320–329. https://doi.org/10.1080/00913367.2020.1870586

  
|  11/18 |  **Message Integration**
  * Chang, Y. (2018). Perceived message consistency: Explicating how brand messages being processed across multiple online media.  _Computers in Human Behavior_ ,  _85_ , 125-134.
  * Georgios Halkias & Flora Kokkinaki (2014) The Degree of Ad–Brand Incongruity and the Distinction Between Schema-Driven and Stimulus-Driven Attitudes, Journal of Advertising, 43:4, 397-409, DOI: 10.1080/00913367.2014.891087

  
|  11/25 |  **Guest Lecture** Topic: TBD Lecturer: TBD  
|  12/02 |  **Final Report Discussion: Introduction & Lit Review**  
|  12/09 |  **Final****Report Presentation: Introduction & Lit Review**  
|  12/16 |  **Final Report Presentation: Introduction & Lit Review**  
The instructor reserves the right to modify the syllabus at any time to best meet the needs of the course.
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_40%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  1. Grading 

|  | 
### Master 
### Student
| 
### Ph.D.
Student  
---|---|---|---  
### Weekly Reflection Paper
| 
### 40%
| 
### Individual
| 
### Individual  
### Class Facilitation 
| 
### 20%
| 
### Team
| 
### Individual  
### Term paper: Introduction & Theoretical Framework
| 
### 20%
| 
### Team
| 
### Individual  
### Term paper: Introduction & Lit Review
| 
### 20%
| 
### Team
| 
### Individual  
### Total
| 
### 100%
|  |   
2. Attendance and Participation
  * If you are unable to attend a class, you must notify the professor via email **before the class begins**. Upon your return, you are required to provide **valid documentation** to formalize your absence. Alternative methods, such as having a friend inform the professor about your illness, will not be accepted. Leave requests must be supported by legitimate reasons; excuses such as travel or taking a driver’s license test will not be considered valid.
  * Attendance will be monitored. Arriving late to class will result in a **one-point deduction** from your final grade. Missing an entire class will incur a **two-point deduction**. Students who accumulate **three absences** will automatically **fail the course**.


3. Late Work Policy
  *     * 1 day late (i.e., immediately after the deadline up to 24 hours later): -10%
    * 2 days late (i.e., 24 to 48 hours after the deadline): -25%
    * 3 days late (i.e., 48 to 72 hours after the deadline): -50%
    * > 3 days late: -100% (I will not grade the assignment.)


4. Team Formation
  * Each team must consist of either two master's students or one Ph.D. student.


5. Additional Requirement for Ph.D. Students
  * Ph.D. students are required to independently write weekly reflection papers, facilitate class sessions, and complete the term paper on their own.


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  1. No required text book
  2. Assigned readings on Moodle


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Any use of AI, even for idea generation, must be properly acknowledged in assignments. Failure to disclose AI usage will result in a grade penalty. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment
Office: Room 415, Com. Building
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBD
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
