國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：人機互動設計
#####  Course Name: Human-Computer Interaction and Design
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：464786001 Course No.464786001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_10_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：傳播碩一、傳播碩二 Course Department:Master Program in Communication/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：陳宜秀 Instructor: CHEN YI-HSIU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12 


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course aims to help students understand the interaction process between people and products through lectures and assignments, so they can understand how to design the best interaction experiences with digital media. The word “products” here refers to all objects, digital contents, or services in our environment. 
The course consists of these units:
  1. The nature of interaction  
In all things interactive, interaction must go through an “interface” defined by several elements. Interacting through interfaces is one of the fundamentals of how the world works. The course will explain from an analytical point of view what various interface concepts have in common, how they form the basis of human-computer interaction, and how the concepts of human-computer interaction (HCI) are applied to various phenomena.  

  2. The psychological basis of HCI  
“Human” is the core of HCI, but what does that even mean? What kind of constraints need to be considered? What principles do people follow when processing information in interfaces and interactive processes? Starting from the visual system, this unit introduces knowledge regarding perception, memory, cognition, and laws of Human Factors engineering. What does “intuitive” really mean?   

  3. The relationship between HCI and communication, including classical communication theory and principles of human-human dialogues, and how these principles become the foundation of HCI; how to apply these principles to understand interaction results or errors.  

  4. The context of HCI and design, including basic design research methods, data presentation, and how to deepen the understanding of both the user (human) and the function (machine) from the data.  

  5. Methods and tools of designing HCI, task design axes, and goals. This unit will also discuss design elements of human-computer interfaces, such as graphical interface elements and rules, information visualization, perceptual design, and information architecture.  

  6. Prototyping and evaluation of HCI design. A prototype is a means of verification and optimization, and effective prototyping must be accompanied by effective evaluation. This chapter introduces different prototyping techniques and different evaluation methods.  

  7. New HCI technologies, including the basic technologies of Metaverse such as Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR), Brain-Computer Interfaces (BCI), and Artificial Intelligence (AI) and their impacts on future HCI development.  



Note: This course will be taught in English.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 知識統整能力
  * B. 擅變創新能力
  * C. 資訊處理能力
  * D. 領導統御能力
  * E. 專業倫理能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Upon completion of the course, students will
  * Understand the principles and application of HCI as the basis of digital media
  * Understand the structure, design process, and value of HCI
  * Apply course content to observation and understanding of phenomena in daily life
  * Apply course content to professional design and production
  * Learn about new interactive technologies and possibilities for future development.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
The following schedule explains the basic structure of the course. The actual content of each week may be adjusted each semester. Also, this cousre requires a total of 64.5 hours of workload outside the classroom, which includes group discussion, homework, and presentation online, thus fulfilling the Ministry of Education's stupid mandate to "fit a 18-week course into 16 weeks."   

**Week** |  **Topic** |  **Content** |  **Activities** |  **Workload Expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction of the course |  What is interaction? Introduction to Human-Computer Interaction Course Requirements Ground rules Grades and projects |  Lecture |  3  
2 |  Communication and HCI |  Basic communication theories Mechanisms of dialogues Cooperative principles Common ground Similarities and differences of Human-system interaction |  Lecture |  3  
3 |  The Psychological Basis of HCI |  Vision Attention Memory What is “intuitive”? Laws of Human Factors |  Lecture; homework |  4.5  
4 |  Basic Concepts of Interaction |  System image Three levels of response Metaphor Mental models Basic interface cues Prevent unwanted interactions Seven stages of processes distributed cognition |  Lecture |  3  
5 |  Human Errors |  Mistakes Slips Revisiting seven-stage processes social pressure Swiss Cheese model |  Lecture;  
in-class project |  4.5  
6 |  Emotion |  What is emotion? Theories of emotion Hedonics hierarchy Fluency of behavior Kansei engineering |  Lecture |  3  
7 |  Design Research |  Basic understanding before interface design HCI research methods Qualitative method Quantitative method Then what? |  Lecture; homework |  6  
8 |  Task Analysis and Use Cases |  Analysis of behavior Task analysis Use Cases User interface components |  Lecture; homework |  4.5  
9 |  Information Architecture |  What is architecture? Basic principles of IA Organize/Tab/Navigate/Search Meta data IA and eco system |  Lecture; homework |  4.5  
10 |  Attitude and Characters |  Attitudes of interfaces Building characters Good behavior From novice to power users |  Lecture; homework |  4.5  
11 |  Prototype |  What is a prototype? Prototype of interfaces Types of prototypes |  Lecture; homework |  4.5  
12 |  Evaluation |  Objectives of evaluation Cognitive assessment different assessment methods A/B Testing misuse of assessment |  Lecture; homework |  4.5  
13 |  Metaverse |  Augmented reality, AR Definition and architecture Virtual reality, VR Real meaning of VR |  Lecture |  3  
14 |  BCI and AI |  Brain-computer interface, BCI Artificial intelligence, AI Impacts of AI Human-agent interaction, HAI Trust in HAI |  Lecture |  6  
15 |  AI UX Tools |  Project Activities with AI Tools  
|  Discussion |  6  
16 |  End-of-Term Poster Session |  Poster session to present the final products of your project |  Poster Session |  0  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_40%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
The total score of 100 points will be the accumulation of these activities:
  * One individual homework, maximum 10 points (10%)
  * Six group assignments, maximum 10 points each (60%) 
  * Final poster session, 30 points （30%，15 of which will be graded by the instructor and TA, the other 15 graded by fellow students.


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
E-Books recommended, available on Kindle
**The Design of Everyday Things**
  * By Don Norman
  * Basic Books
  * ISBN: 9780465050659


**Emotional Design: Why We Love (or Hate) Everyday Things**
  * By Don Norman
  * Basic Books
  * ISBN: 9780465051366


**Information Architecture: For the Web and Beyond, 4th Edition**
  * Louis Rosenfeld, Peter Morville, Jorge Arango
  * O'Reilly Media
  * ISBN:‎ 9781491911686  



**About Face: The Essentials of Interaction Design 4th Edition**
  * Alan Cooper, Robert Reimann, David Cronin, Christopher Noessel


  * Wiley
  * ISBN:‏‎ 9781118766576


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Appointments available Tuesday 14:00-16:00, Research Building 813.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBD
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
