國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：十九世紀英國文學
#####  Course Name: 19th Century English Literature
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：501063001 Course No.501063001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文三甲、英文三乙、英文四甲、英文四乙 Course Department:English/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：陳音頤 Instructor: CHEN YIN-I 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一D56 Session: mon13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
https://meet.google.com/cta-tysw-hna
Nineteenth-century English literature covers the Romantic and the Victorian periods. The first half of the semester deals with major issues of the Romantic period reflected in poetry, novels, and other prose works. Issues to be discussed may include the French Revolution, individualism, the cult of sensibility, nature and the Romantic landscape (from the picturesque to the sublime), and Gothic romance.
In the second half of the semester, students will be introduced to a broad range of works produced in the Victorian period. The issues covered include the condition of England and the industrial novel, the woman question, empire, utilitarianism, realism and psychological realism, as well as the sensation novel.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 掌握西方文學與文化發展的歷史文化脈絡，以熟悉不同文化觀點(To trace the historical and cultural transformations in Western literature in order to understand different cultural perspectives)
  * B. 具備西方文學與文化研究之相關知能以培養獨立思考與批判之能力(To acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for doing research on Western literature and culture in order to develop independent and critical judgment.)
  * C. 具備語言學的基礎專業知識，以培養觀察分析及推理能力(To acquire a basic knowledge of linguistics in order to foster the ability to make logical conclusions through observation and analysis)
  * D. 具備應用語言學及英語教學的基礎專業知識及實務應用能力 (To acquire knowledge of applied linguistics in order to make practical applications to methods of teaching English.)
  * E. 理解、分析及整合英文訊息並以口說英文充分表達自我與協調溝通 (To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.)
  * F. 解讀、分析及整合英文篇章並書寫不同主題及目的英文文章以表達自我並呈現個人思維邏輯(To understand, analyze, and synthesize articles in English and to write English papers on different topics and for different purposes to fully express oneself and to reason in written English.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Nineteenth-century English literature covers the Romantic and the Victorian periods. The first half of the semester deals with major issues of the Romantic period reflected in poetry, novels, and other prose works. Issues to be discussed may include the French Revolution, individualism, the cult of sensibility, nature and the Romantic landscape (from the picturesque to the sublime), and Gothic romance.
In the second half of the semester, students will be introduced to a broad range of works produced in the Victorian period. The issues covered include the condition of England and the industrial novel, the woman question, empire, utilitarianism, realism and psychological realism, as well as the sensation novel.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
  1. The Romantic Period: (1) The French Revolution and the Spirit of the Age (2) the cult of sensibility and Romantic nature (from the picturesque to the sublime) (3) the role of poet and imagination (4) individualism (5) Gothic romance; 
  1. William Blake. Songs of Innocence, Songs of Experience; William Wordsworth, Preface to Lyrical Ballads, I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud; Tintern Abbey
3. William Wordsworth. Tintern Abbey, Samuel Coleridge. Kubla Khan, Biographia Literaria. Jane Austen (1 student presentation on _Pride and Prejudice_)
4. Coleridge. The Rime of the Ancient Mariner; George Byron. She Walks in Beauty, Child Harold's Pilgrimage, Don Juan. Percy Bysshe Shelley. A Defence of Poetry; Ozymandias; 
5. Shelley. Ode to the West Wind; the romantic sublime; Mary Shelley (2 student presentation on _Frankenstein_) 
6. John Keats, Letters, Ode to a Nightingale, Ode on a Grecian Urn, To Autumn; Romantic Prose: Charles Lamb, Old China;
7. Romantic Prose: Mary Wollstonecraft, A Vindication of the Rights of Woman; Thomas De Quincey, Confessions of an English Opium-Eater; the Gothic and “strangeness in beauty” (3 student presentation on Ann Radcliffe and Gothic Romance)
8. Mid-term exam
9. The Victorian Age. _Background_ : Miscellaneous era; (1) industrial progress; Protestantism and Bentham’s philosophy, laissez-faire; (2)class and gender problems; decline of religion and rise of natural and human sciences; the “Condition of England” issue – Carlyle, Auden, Ruskin; the “Woman Question” – separate spheres, virgin and harlot, “New Woman”; Empire and decline; _Brief survey_ of Victorian fiction, poetry, drama and prose; student assignments of major novels and drama
10. Victorian prose: Carlyle (“Sartor Resartus” “Past and Present”1005, -6, -9, 1022, -24, -27); read “The Condition of England Issue” 1556; 1237, 38. Victorian Poetry: Tennyson. “Ulysses”; 5 student presentation on Dickens (4 student presentation on Dickens’s _Great Expectations_)
11. Victorian poetry: Tennyson “In Memoriam” (stanzas 6, 7, 22, 27, 50, 55); Prose: Ruskin (“The Stones of Venice” 1317, -8, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29); the Brontes; mid-Victorian novels; 5 student presentation on _Jane Eyre_
12. Victorian poetry: Browning (“My Last Duchess”, “Andrea del Sarto”); 6 student presentation on _Wuthering Heights_
13. Arnold “(“Dover Beach”, “Stanzas from the Grande Chartreuse”); Arnold (“The Function of Criticism” “Culture and Anarchy”1353, 54, 90, 91, 92, 93, 95, 96, 98, 1402) . student presentation on George Eliot ( 7 student presentation on _Mill on the Floss_) 2; read “The Woman Question” 1581
14. Pre-Raphaelites (Rossetti, “The Blessed Damozel”); Pater (“The Renaissance” 1638-1644) and Aestheticism; “Late Victorians” 1635. Oscar Wilde (8 student presentation on _The Picture of Dorian Gray_)
15. Late Victorian poetry (Hopkins, “The Windhover”)
Late Victorian drama. Oscar Wilde and Bernard Shaw (9 student presentation on _Mrs. Warren’s Profession_); popular fiction (Robert L. Stevenson)(women’s sensation novel)
16. Final exam
17. Self study
18. Self-study
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.