國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：西洋文學概論
#####  Course Name: Introduction to Western Literature
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：501010011 Course No.501010011


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_45_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文一乙 Course Department:English/B/1 
  * 授課老師：許立欣 Instructor: HSU LI-HSIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
The class focuses on the close study of a number of major works from the Classical to the pre-Medieval period, including the Bible, Greek mythology and literature, and Roman literature. This course aims to guide students to examine critical classical and pre-medieval cultures and legends by focusing on various canonical works. Students are expected to understand important ideas in classical and pre-medieval literature and cultures, analyze important themes and motives in the literary works, and become acquainted with Greek, Roman, and pre-Medieval traditions.At the end of the course, students will be able to understand further the significant religious, historical, social, artistic works or events that have influenced and shaped Western society and literature. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 掌握西方文學與文化發展的歷史文化脈絡，以熟悉不同文化觀點(To trace the historical and cultural transformations in Western literature in order to understand different cultural perspectives)
  * B. 具備西方文學與文化研究之相關知能以培養獨立思考與批判之能力(To acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for doing research on Western literature and culture in order to develop independent and critical judgment.)
  * C. 具備語言學的基礎專業知識，以培養觀察分析及推理能力(To acquire a basic knowledge of linguistics in order to foster the ability to make logical conclusions through observation and analysis)
  * D. 具備應用語言學及英語教學的基礎專業知識及實務應用能力 (To acquire knowledge of applied linguistics in order to make practical applications to methods of teaching English.)
  * E. 理解、分析及整合英文訊息並以口說英文充分表達自我與協調溝通 (To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.)
  * F. 解讀、分析及整合英文篇章並書寫不同主題及目的英文文章以表達自我並呈現個人思維邏輯(To understand, analyze, and synthesize articles in English and to write English papers on different topics and for different purposes to fully express oneself and to reason in written English.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This is a survey course of Western literature designed to give students a better understanding of the Western cultural tradition and Western literature. This course aims to introduce an overview of the development of literature in Western civilization. This course first introduces Greek mythologies and the epic to explore the cosmology of ancient Greece. After discussing _The Epic of Gilgamesh_ and Homer's  _The Iliad and The Odyssey_ , we move onto the world of Greek philosophy by reading Plato's  _Symposium,_ Aristotle’s _Poetics, and_ Sappho's poetry. 
The second part of this course focuses on Greek theater, Roman Literature and the Bible. We will first read Aeschylus, _Agamemnon,_ Sophocles's  _Oedipus the King,_ Euripides's  _Medea_ , and _Lysistrata_. The course will then discuss Ovid’s _Metamorphoses_ to see how the Romans reshaped Greek mythology. The Old and New Testament will be read in both the first and the second section to form a basis of comparison. Each of these works will be explored closely, analyzed carefully, and discussed with its cultural and historical context. The course will proceed mainly in three forms: lectures, small group discussions, and online forums. Every week, students need to finish reading materials, post responses on the course website’s forum, and watch videos before or after class, if necessary. At the beginning of each class, we will have a 10-minute quiz. Students are also required to do a 15-minute group presentation in class.
Studnets are expected to develop the ability to express oneself, discuss and communicate in correct and fluent English, and to read and comprehend long English texts and to appreciate their cultural contexts. The course will also cultivate students' ability to think independently, make inquiries, hold discussions, and solve problems, and develop their professional and cultural knowledge through extensive reading. Finally, the students are expected to gain the ability to undertake life-long, self-directed learning, and to think creatively and develop a second specialty.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**The first class and the second class will begin on _10th September,_ on Wednesday (9-12 noon in person + 7-10 pm online).**
1 Introduction
Introduction to the course; 
Ancient Mediterranean and Near Eastern Literature pp. 3-21 (& Others pp. 23-51); 
_The Epic of Gilgamesh_ pp. 54-65; 102-110
Outside reading I: _The Story Bible_ Volume I: The Old Testament
2 Cosmogony
God The Hebrew Bible, pp. 117-29, 150-51, 152-77, 178-80
(Genesis: 1-25, Exodus 19-20, Job 1-42, Psalm 23, 104, 137) 
Outside Reading Test One on _The Story Bible_ Volume I 
Outside reading II: _Mythology_
3 Greek Mythology and Epic
Hero Homer, _The Iliad,_ BKs 1, 6, 18, 22, 24, pp. 181-215, 243-258, 
264-268, 283
4 Hero Homer, _The Iliad,_ BKs 1, 6, 18, 22, 24, pp. 181-215, 243-258, 
264-268, 283
5 Greek Epic
Hero Homer, _The Odyssey,_ BKs 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, pp. 291-301, 
344-377, 385-410, 421-422
6 Greek Epic
Hero Homer, _The Odyssey,_ BKs 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, pp. 291-301, 
344-377, 385-410, 421-422
Outside Reading Test Two on Mythology
7 Greek Fables
Poetry _Greek Fables_ , pp. 582-94; Sappho of Lesbos, pp. 594-602; 
Plato, _Symposium_ , pp. 821-48; supplementary materials on Aristotle
8 **Mid-term Exam**
Outside Readings: _The Story Bible_ Volume II: The New Testament 
9 Greek Tragedy & EARN Lecture on European Romanticism by Prof Bode
Aeschylus, _Agamemnon_ , pp. 603-60
10 Greek Tragedy
Sophocles, _Oedipus the King_ , pp. 661-706
11 Greek Tragedy
Euripides, _Medea_ , pp. 742-81
12 Greek Comedy
Aristophanes, _Lysistrata_ , pp. 782-820
13 Roman Epic
Hero Virgil, _The Aeneid_ Bks 1, 2, 4, pp. 981-991, 993-999, 1002-03, 
1022-23, 1025-44
14 Christianity
God The New Testament, pp. 1135-65
Outside Reading Test Three on The New Testament
15 Roman Mythology
God Ovid, _Metamorphoses_ BKs 1, 2, 5, 10, pp. 1090-1117, 1121-1133
16 **Final Examination**
  

##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_15%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_15%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**A.******G** rading Criteria**
**Items of Evaluation**
1. Students should come to the class **before 9:10 am** with their required reading materials (on the Moodle platform), and they are expected to preview the assigned text materials before coming to the class. **Readings before class MUST be done in time.**
2. A quiz will be given to students before an assigned reading is taught in class. **No late assignments and no make-up quizzes and exams.**
3. They should bring a notebook or loose pages to the class and should keep a journal in class. They are supposed to keep their preview and review thoughts in the journal. Creative writings related to the class materials are encouraged. Journals will be collected twice a semester, at the mid-term exam and final exam weeks for grading.
4. Three tests will be also given on outside readings according to the weekly syllabus. 
5. Students will be divided into small groups to do a 15-minute oral presentation related to weekly reading topics. They should prepare printed copy of the oral report for the instructor. The cover page of the printed copy should include their photos, names, and the title of the presentation topic. They should email their ppt file to the instructor or the teaching assistant.
6. Students must view 10-minute video clips on Moodle corresponding to the weekly reading assignment before coming to the class and write down in the journal the answer to the question in the video. 
7. Students may download and print out the Study Questions file on Moodle and bring it to the class for class discussion. 
8.**Participation in Group Discussions is absolutely required. Please a** ttend each class and discuss issues with your classmates.
**B. Grading Percentage**
Quizzes 20% 
Journals & Online Forums 15%
Oral Presentation and Class Discussion 15% 
Mid-term and Final Exams 50% 
**C.**E** ffects of Learning**
1. Students will have a better understanding of the Western cultural tradition from the ancient times to the Renaissance.
2. Students will have a better understanding of Western literary classics from the ancient times to the Renaissance.
3. Students will have their vocabulary and reading comprehension improved by reading rigorously literary materials.
  

  

##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
A. Required Texts:
Buck, Pearl S. _The Story Bible Volume 1: The Old Testament_. Taipei: Bookman, 1995.
---. _The Story Bible Volume II: The New Testament_. Taipei: Bookman, 1995.
Hamilton, Edith. _Mythology._ New York: Warner Books, 1964.
Lawall, Sarah. Ed. _The Norton Anthology of Western Literature_. W. W. Norton &
Company, 1999. 
Perry, Marvin. et al. _Sources of the Western Tradition: From Ancient Times_
_to the Enlightenment_. Houghton Mifflin, 1995. 
B. Recommended Texts:
Abrams, M. H. and Geoffrey Galt Harpham. _A Glossary of Literary Terms_. 11th
Edition. Australia: Wadsworth, 2012. 
Fulghum, Walter B. Jr. _A Dictionary of Biblical Allusions in English Literature_. 
Taipei: Bookman, 1965.
Horton, Rod W. and Vincent F. Hopper. _Backgrounds of European Literature._ Taipei: 
Bookman, nd.
呂健忠、李奭學編譯。《新編西洋文學概論：上古迄文藝復興》。台北：書林，1988。
吳松江譯。《文學術語手冊》。M. H. Abrams, Geoffrey Galt Harpham原著。台北：
書林，2012。
張錯。《西洋文學術語》。台北：書林，2005。
C. Outside Readings:
_The Story Bible Volume I: The Old Testament_
The Creation of the World
The Barren of Eden
Cain and Abel: The First Murder
Noah and the Flood
The Tower of Babel
The Fate of Sodom
The Sacrifice of Isaac
Moses in the Bulrushes
The Burning Bush
The Ten Commandments
Land of Milk and Honey
Samson and Delilah
The Story of Ruth
David and Goliath
The Triumph and The Tragedy of David
The Wisdom of Solomon
  
_Mythology_
Part One:
The Titans and the Twelve Great Olympians
The Two Great Gods of Earth
How the World and Mankind Were Created
The Earliest Heroes
Part Two:
Cupid and Psyche
The Quest of the Golden Fleece
Four Great Adventures
Part Three:
Hercules
Part Four:
The Heroes of the Trojan War
Part Five:
The House of Atreus
The Royal house of Thebes
  
_The Story Bible Volume I: The New Testament_
The Angel Gabriel
The Birth of Jesus
John the Baptist
Jesus in the Wilderness
The Beginning of the Mission
Jesus in Galilee
The Feeding of the Multitude
Disputes in the Temple
The Way of the Cross
Last Hours in the Temple
The Last Supper
The Betrayal
The Trial
The Crucifixion
He Is Risen!
  
  

####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
1. Open Textbook Library: https://open.umn.edu/opentextbooks/textbooks/world-literature-i-beginnings-to-1650
2. World History Encyclopedia: https://www.worldhistory.org
3. ​​​​​​​The Norton anthology of western literature. Volume 1: https://archive.org/details/thenortonantholo0000unse/mode/1up
4. The Norton anthology of world masterpieces : the Western tradition: https://archive.org/details/nortonanthologyo0001unse_z9t3
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Wednesday 1-6 pm
Ji-Tao Building Deparment Office
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
N/A
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
