國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：英語口語訓練（一）：口語訓練與聽力
#####  Course Name: English Oral Training (I) : Oral Training and Listening
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：501057011 Course No.501057011
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文一甲、英文一乙 Course Department:English/B/1 
  * 授課老師：鄭傳傑 Instructor: CHENG CHUAN CHIEH 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This is the first semester of the English Department's Oral Training Program. 
This course will focus on getting you comfortable with using English in general conversation, speaking with the appropriate degree of formality, using English to express your ideas and opinions during a discussion, in using English to accomplish tasks within a group, and in making short prepared speeches in English.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 掌握西方文學與文化發展的歷史文化脈絡，以熟悉不同文化觀點(To trace the historical and cultural transformations in Western literature in order to understand different cultural perspectives)
  * B. 具備西方文學與文化研究之相關知能以培養獨立思考與批判之能力(To acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for doing research on Western literature and culture in order to develop independent and critical judgment.)
  * C. 具備語言學的基礎專業知識，以培養觀察分析及推理能力(To acquire a basic knowledge of linguistics in order to foster the ability to make logical conclusions through observation and analysis)
  * D. 具備應用語言學及英語教學的基礎專業知識及實務應用能力 (To acquire knowledge of applied linguistics in order to make practical applications to methods of teaching English.)
  * E. 理解、分析及整合英文訊息並以口說英文充分表達自我與協調溝通 (To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.)
  * F. 解讀、分析及整合英文篇章並書寫不同主題及目的英文文章以表達自我並呈現個人思維邏輯(To understand, analyze, and synthesize articles in English and to write English papers on different topics and for different purposes to fully express oneself and to reason in written English.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
_Oral Training Goals:_
The goal for the first semester is to acclimate students to the use of English as a communicative tool. First, students should be comfortable speaking in English in extended informal settings. Then they should be able to recognize, respond and converse with the appropriate degree of formality when interacting in social contexts which require varying levels of formality. Next, students can be placed in situations where English is needed to successfully accomplish a task. Students should be able to informally present their decisions upon completing the task. Finally, students should be comfortable speaking in front of an audience and should be give simple directions, express opinions, and finally be able to make impromptu speeches in front of the whole class. We will integrate AI into this course, and we will discuss the ethical uses of AI. Students will learn about creating an AI chatbuddy to use outside of class, and are expected to use AI as an additional resource to independently improve their English proficiency. 
By the end of the semester students should feel comfortable and confident in using English in daily informal conversation. They should now be able to communicate in more structured and formal situations. When they encounter topics that they are unfamiliar with, they should be able to use English to fill in gaps in their knowledge.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
_Oral Communication 1_ ( Wed 1-4)
Week |  Date |  Class Activities |  Homework  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Sept 3 |  Class Introduction, Making an Impromptu Speech |   
2 |  Sept 10 |  Creating an AI chatbot, AI for language learning Set goals for individual targets |   
3 |  Sept 17 |  Group Dynamics – Task and Maintenance Roles Winter Survival |   
4 |  Sept 24 |  Group Discussion Activity |   
5 |  Oct 1 |  LARP introduction Register Spanish Class Party Shipwrecked |   
6 |  Oct 8 |  Ferry Boat |   
7 |  Oct 15 |  Group Discussion Projects |   
8 |  Oct 22 |  Group Discussion Projects |   
9 |  Oct 29 |  Demonstration Presentations |   
10 |  Nov 5 |  Signature Story Introductions |   
11 |  Nov 12 |  Demonstration Presentation Performances |   
12 |  Nov 19 |  Demonstration Presentation Performances |   
13 |  Nov 26 |  5 minute Skits, AI Chatbot experience sharing |   
14 |  Dec 3 |  Signature Stories |   
15 |  Dec 10 |  Signature Stories |   
16 |  Dec 17 |  5 minute Skits, Impromptu Speeches |   
|  |  |   
####  其他： Others: LARP, Peer Learning 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.