國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：寫作與閱讀（一）
#####  Course Name: Writing and Reading (I)
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：501041111 Course No.501041111
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文一甲、英文一乙 Course Department:English/B/1 
  * 授課老師：林質心 Instructor: LIN CHIH-HSIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
Students who want to take this course should come to the first session with the reading for the first week done and their自傳or 學習歷程自述 in English uploaded on Moodle one week before the first session. An interview and critical thinking tests will also be arranged one week before the semester starts. Two weeks before the first session, the textbook will be available at the University Bookstore, and the reading package can be purchased at 馨園影印店(台北市文山區文山區二段119巷2號1樓; 29369521，正門對面屈臣氏旁巷子，可麗餅旁邊). Students who are registered for this course will receive an instruction through their school email about the reading, the exercise, the interview, and the critical thinking tests. Students who want to take the course but are not registered need to email the instructor for instruction.
This is a one-year course aiming at training students to develop writing and reading skills in English for school and for their future career. Students are expected to learn to recognize the thesis statement and the rhetorical pattern of an article, evaluate the relevancy and validity of all supporting materials, and judge the unity, clarity, and coherence of the article. Students are also expected to use these skills in their own writing, learning to narrow down their topic, examine all relevant ideas, ask meaningful questions, and write clear, unified, and coherent essays.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 掌握西方文學與文化發展的歷史文化脈絡，以熟悉不同文化觀點(To trace the historical and cultural transformations in Western literature in order to understand different cultural perspectives)
  * B. 具備西方文學與文化研究之相關知能以培養獨立思考與批判之能力(To acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for doing research on Western literature and culture in order to develop independent and critical judgment.)
  * C. 具備語言學的基礎專業知識，以培養觀察分析及推理能力(To acquire a basic knowledge of linguistics in order to foster the ability to make logical conclusions through observation and analysis)
  * D. 具備應用語言學及英語教學的基礎專業知識及實務應用能力 (To acquire knowledge of applied linguistics in order to make practical applications to methods of teaching English.)
  * E. 理解、分析及整合英文訊息並以口說英文充分表達自我與協調溝通 (To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.)
  * F. 解讀、分析及整合英文篇章並書寫不同主題及目的英文文章以表達自我並呈現個人思維邏輯(To understand, analyze, and synthesize articles in English and to write English papers on different topics and for different purposes to fully express oneself and to reason in written English.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This is a one-year course aiming at training students to develop writing and reading skills in English for school and for their future career. Students are expected to learn to recognize the thesis statement and the rhetorical pattern of an article, evaluate the relevancy and validity of all supporting materials, and judge the unity, clarity, and coherence of the article. Students are also expected to use these skills in their own writing, learning to narrow down their topic, examine all relevant ideas, ask meaningful questions, and write clear, unified, and coherent essays.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
*8/29 *自傳or 學習歷程自述 in English
# Individual interviews and critical thinking tests
9/4 “Writing with a Central Idea” (Pt. I, chap. 1, pp. 1-7; 15-25; 27-28)
The importance of understanding your readers
How to build your vocabulary
Using the dictionary
Building vocabulary from your readings
Turning passive vocabulary into active vocabulary
9/11 “Writing the Research Paper” (Appendix, pp. 447-58)
How to take notes for your readings
Choosing the tools
Building categories for your notes
Developing symbols
How to take notes in class
Catching the key ideas
Finding the examples and explanations for the key ideas
Using your notes to review the materials
@The exercises: “Sentence Combining: Embedding Adjectives, Adverbs, and Prepositional Phrases” (pp. 32-39)
9/18 “Using Narration as an Expository Technique” (_Patterns_ , pp. 497-501)
The reading for narration (1): “Without Emotion” (pp. 9-11)
Speech: the life experience of an English major
#The thesis statement and topic sentences for your narration essay-draft
*A reading note and a class note for IWL
*Class notes for speech 1
@The exercises: “Sentence Combining: Coordination” (pp 67-75)
9/25 “Reading for the Central Idea” (Pt. I, chap. 2, pp. 41-45; 49-51)
The reading for narration (2): “How to Stay Alive” (pp. 48-49)
*A reading note and a class note for IL
#The thesis statement and topic sentences for your narration essay-revised
10/2 “Summarizing and Responding to Reading” (Pt. II, chap. 1, pp. 155-58; 162-65; 167)
Finding a topic from your readings
Asking meaningful questions about your readings and provide an answer
@The exercises: “Sentence Combining: Using Subordination” (pp. 108-13)
10/9 The reading for narration (3): “Pain” (_Patterns_ , pp 514-20)
*A summary of a story from IWL, three questions, and one answer with supporting materials
10/16 Introduction: “Supporting the Central Idea” (Pt. I, chap. 3, pp. 76-90)
The reading for narration (4): “The Neglected Suicide Epidemic” (pp. 98-102)
*An essay about yourself built on narration-draft
10/23 The midterm examination
10/30 “Illustrating Ideas by Use of Examples” (_Patterns_ , pp. 43-48)
The reading for example (1): “My Long Distant Life” (_Contemporary_ , pp. 335-39)
11/6 Introduction: “Unity and Coherence” (Pt. I, chap. 4, pp. 114-26)
The reading for example (2): “Liem and Anton” (_Patterns_ : pp. 75-82)
#The thesis statement and topic sentences for your example essay-draft
@The exercises: “Sentence Combining: Verbal Phrases” (pp. 147-54)
* An essay about yourself built on narration -revised
11/13 The reading for example (3): “Taking Care of Aging Parents” (_Contemporary_ , pp. 344-48)
#The thesis statement and topic sentences for your example essay-revised
@The exercises: “Sentence Combining: Appositives” (pp. 195-99)
11/20 Introduction: “Explaining with the Help of Description” (_Patterns_ , pp 441-46)
The reading for description (1): “The Yellow Door House” (_Patterns_ , pp. 480-84)
*An essay about family built by examples-draft
11/27 The reading for description (2): “More Room” (_Norton_ , pp 83-87)
#Find one example of description from readings of IWL and explain its implication
12/4 The reading for description (3): “Once more to the Lake” (_Norton_ , pp. 53-58)
#The thesis statement and topic sentences for your description essay, with a picture-draft
*An essay about family built by examples-revised
@Sentence Combining: Parallelism” (pp, 230-35)
12/11 Presenting your understanding of who you are and who you want to be
#The thesis statement and topic sentences for your description essay, with a picture-revised
12/18 The final examination
*An essay about a space and its significance-draft
12/31 *An essay about a space and its significance-revised
####  其他： Others: In-class exercises, exercises, revisions, individual meetings 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.