國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：寫作與閱讀（一）
#####  Course Name: Writing and Reading (I)
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：501041131 Course No.501041131
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文一甲、英文一乙 Course Department:English/B/1 
  * 授課老師：吳敏華 Instructor: WU MIN-HUA 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to encourage students’ exploration of various logical reasoning skills and critical appreciation within a specific writing or reading context. It also calls for students’ awareness of a variety of academic essay styles and rhetorical modes for which they are require to write respective English essays and engage in serious and strenuous peer editing before they arrive at the final revision of the original version. Students will further their sensitivity towards perspective, tone, purpose, style, audience, and the significance of research within a specific discipline in literature studies. This course challenges students to identify, analyze, and synthesize their understandings of what makes “good writing” with regard to the academic discourse particularly pertinent to their discipline. Towards the second half of the course, students are expected to utilize critical resources found in the library while working to incorporate a variety of credible sources in the writing of an academic paper. Skills acquired in this course will be largely transferrable and applicable outside of the classroom or after graduation, for being able to communicate effectively with others in a number of ways in the English language is an indispensable skill for most professional careers in our times.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 掌握西方文學與文化發展的歷史文化脈絡，以熟悉不同文化觀點(To trace the historical and cultural transformations in Western literature in order to understand different cultural perspectives)
  * B. 具備西方文學與文化研究之相關知能以培養獨立思考與批判之能力(To acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for doing research on Western literature and culture in order to develop independent and critical judgment.)
  * C. 具備語言學的基礎專業知識，以培養觀察分析及推理能力(To acquire a basic knowledge of linguistics in order to foster the ability to make logical conclusions through observation and analysis)
  * D. 具備應用語言學及英語教學的基礎專業知識及實務應用能力 (To acquire knowledge of applied linguistics in order to make practical applications to methods of teaching English.)
  * E. 理解、分析及整合英文訊息並以口說英文充分表達自我與協調溝通 (To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.)
  * F. 解讀、分析及整合英文篇章並書寫不同主題及目的英文文章以表達自我並呈現個人思維邏輯(To understand, analyze, and synthesize articles in English and to write English papers on different topics and for different purposes to fully express oneself and to reason in written English.)
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of this course, students will find themselves equipped with a solid grasp of English written expression as well as flexible strategies of English writing that reinforce them to meet the strict demands of different composition styles. Students will be expected to write coherent paragraphs and complex essays demonstrating both accuracy and proficiency in various rhetorical forms. This will include building essays with cohesive and coherent introductions, middles, and conclusions with appropriate transitional strategies that serve to bridge the bodily sections or passages effectively and appropriately so as to wrap up the entire essay writing as an organic and well-structured composition. 
Learning Outcomes |  Evaluation Methods  
---|---  
  1. Grasp the grammar, vocabulary, and structure of English articles
|  Individual presentation and group discussion on the assigned articles  
  1. Master English reading skills and be able to efficiently grasp important information
|  Individual presentation and group discussion on the assigned articles  
3. Be able to proofread, correct, improve and edit one’s peers’ English essay writing  |  Peer editing, comments and revisions for one’s peers’ essay writing  
  1. Accept peers’ advice and comments in order to review and edit one’s own essay writing
|  Self editing, self reflections and self revisions according to one’s peers’ comments and opinions   
  1. Cultivate the ability to think critically and to read independently outside the class
|  Individual comments and debates on the questions prepared for the assigned articles   
  1. Undergo training in academic essay writing in accord with MLA style
|  Problematic investigations on a topic, references searching, MLA style learning and academic essay writing   
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Schedule of Writing and Reading I: Fall 2025(Min-Hua Wu)
All students are required to spend three hours preparing before class and three hours reviewing after class.
Week |  Date |  Topic/Class Activity |  Required Readings |  Assignment Due  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  Sept. 4 |  Introduction  |  Close and Critical Reading Chapter 1 “Good Writers are Good Readers” (pp 1-11) Presentation assignment +in-class writing |  In-class Essay writing  
2 |  Sept. 11 |  The Writing  Process |  Chapter 2 (Quiz) Reading: “Ready, Willing, and Able” (pp 38-44)  Appendix: Using Sources in Your Writing (pp 699-733) (I) |   
3 |  Sept. 18 |  Basic Moves of  Academic Writing |  Chapter 3 (Quiz) Reading: “Modern Dating: Prehistorical Style” (pp 55-61)  Appendix: Using Sources in Your Writing (pp 699-733) (II) |   
4 |  Sept. 25 |  Narration |  Chapter 4 (Quiz) Reading: “The Sanctuary of School” (pp 84-89) Reading: “Strangers” (pp 108-12) |  1 st essay topic  
5 |  Oct. 2 |  Peer Editing [i] |  Editing peers’ essays (1st essay)  |  1 st essay(draft & revision)  
6 |  Oct. 9 |  Description |  Chapter 5 (Quiz) Reading: “The Natural Order of a Small Town” (pp 135-39) Reading: “Once More to the Lake” (pp 163-69) |   
7 |  Oct. 16 |  Example |  Chapter 6 (Quiz) Reading: “Technologically Challenged” (pp 182-87)  Reading: “Commencement Advice” (pp 199-206) |   
8 |  Oct. 23 |  Mid-term Exam (Recommendation Letter) [ii] |  Writing one’s own recommendation letter and peer review of the letter (2nd essay)  |  2 nd essay (draft & revision)  
9 |  Oct. 30 |  One-on-one conference |  Individual discussions on a writing topic and one’s own writing issues (features of your senior high school) |  3rdessay topic  
10 |  Nov. 6 |  Definition |  Chapter 10 (Quiz) Reading: “The Celebrity Chef” (pp 388-99) Reading: “How to Know If You’re Dead” (pp 102-09) |   
11 |  Nov. 13 |  Peer Editing [iii] |  Editing peers’ essays (3rd essay) |  3 rd essay (Draft & Revision)  
12 |  Nov. 20 |  Cause and Effect |  Chapter 11 (Quiz) Reading: “Behind the Curtain” (pp 466-79) Reading: “The Way to Reduce Black Poverty in America” (pp 484-87)  |   
13 |  Nov. 27 |  Argument |  Chapter 12 (Quiz) Reading: “The Evil Empire?” (pp 532-39) Reading: “I Have a Dream” (pp 553-59) |   
14 |  Dec. 4 |  Library Tour  |  Daxian Library’s Information Room Hands-on searching practice (lectured by a librarian) Creating a working bibliography: Collect 15 critical  papers for the next semester’s research project on _Animal Farm_ |  Collecting useful papers  
15 |  Dec. 11 |  Film Review [iv] |  In-Class Film Review Writing and Peer Essay Editing (4th essay) |  4 thessay (Draft & Revision)  
16 |  Dec. 18 |  Paper Presentations  |  Oral Presentation of a Research Paper on _Animal Farm_ + One-Page Research Proposal with Keywords |  Research Proposal  
*I reserve the right to modify the class schedule, requirements, and readings, if needed. All future changes will be announced in the class or through email. 
####  其他： Others: In-class writing exercise and keeping a learning log 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.