國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：英語口語訓練（三）：口語訓練與閱讀
#####  Course Name: English Oral Training (III): Oral Training & Reading
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：501061011 Course No.501061011


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_26_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文二甲、英文二乙 Course Department:English/B/2 
  * 授課老師：姜翠芬 Instructor: JIANG TSUI-FEN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This class further develops the ability of students to use English as a communicative tool. They should learn to communicate in more structured and formal situations. They should then be able to evaluate and criticize the opinions of their classmates and attempt to influence and alter the opinions and viewpoints of their classmates.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 掌握西方文學與文化發展的歷史文化脈絡，以熟悉不同文化觀點(To trace the historical and cultural transformations in Western literature in order to understand different cultural perspectives)
  * B. 具備西方文學與文化研究之相關知能以培養獨立思考與批判之能力(To acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for doing research on Western literature and culture in order to develop independent and critical judgment.)
  * C. 具備語言學的基礎專業知識，以培養觀察分析及推理能力(To acquire a basic knowledge of linguistics in order to foster the ability to make logical conclusions through observation and analysis)
  * D. 具備應用語言學及英語教學的基礎專業知識及實務應用能力 (To acquire knowledge of applied linguistics in order to make practical applications to methods of teaching English.)
  * E. 理解、分析及整合英文訊息並以口說英文充分表達自我與協調溝通 (To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.)
  * F. 解讀、分析及整合英文篇章並書寫不同主題及目的英文文章以表達自我並呈現個人思維邏輯(To understand, analyze, and synthesize articles in English and to write English papers on different topics and for different purposes to fully express oneself and to reason in written English.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This class continues to improve students’ ability to converse on subjects from a variety of content areas ranging from current events, popular culture, the humanities and science, to technology, economics, politics, and foreign cultures. Students are expected to be able to communicate smoothly in English, by using grammar accurately, interacting with cultural awareness, and improvising in new situations. This class also provides various opportunities for students to read, discuss, and express themselves appropriately in English, so that they can seek information in an organized manner (i.e. interviews) and provide information in an organized manner (i.e. speechmaking, narration).
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**WK Date Content/Assignment**
1. 9.3 INTRODUCTION TO THE CLASS; Pre-test 
2. 9.10 Unit 1 Hospitality and Tourism (hospitality, tourism, ecotourism); 
CV, Vocabulary List
3. 9.17 Unit 2 Solving Urban Challenges (smart city, urban challenges,
rooftop farming); Your city’s problem or a dream city
4. 9.24
class)**;** A Fashion Show or Report on your Idol
5. 10.1 Unit 4 Going Global (AR, global skill competency, emotional 
intelligence); **Youren Yang / Ning Tung (TBA)**
6. 10.8 Unit 4 Going Global (AR, global skill competency, emotional 
intelligence); **Daxian Library; Notebook LM &AR**
Mid-term CLC Buddy Project ppt file due; Mid-term Debate 
list and topic
7. 10.15 Unit 5 Facing Your Fears (fears, overcoming fear, X-sports);
Mid-term CLC Buddy Project Report
**8. 10.22** **MID-TERM EXAM**
9. 10.29 Unit 6 Tradition and Progress (tradition, coming of age tradition, 
cultural event); A Cultural Event or Ceremony
10. 11.5 Unit 7 Money in Our Lives (money, happiness, budgeting); 
My Monthly Expense Chart
11. 11.12 Unit 7 Money in Our Lives (money, happiness, budgeting); 
M Personal Financial Tips
12. 11.19
**Bring Your Fitness Trainer**
13. 11.26 Unit 9 The Mysterious Mind (mind, memory, human psychology);
Final Term Ideal Job Podcast Project ppt file due
14. 12.3 Unit 10 The Future of Food (GM food, food waste, foodie shows); 
Cooking Show; Final Exam Debate list and topic
15. 12.10 Unit 10 The Future of Food (GM food, food waste, foodie shows);
Final Term Ideal Job Podcast Project Report
**16. 12.17** **FINAL EXAM**
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
The class readings include various fields in which students can converse in English by delving into areas of personal interest and popular topics. The instructive methods include comprehension checking of the listening passages, cloze tests of the listening passages, team listening projects done progressively and monitored regularly to be followed by oral activities, interviews, role plays, storytelling, pair and small group discussions, presentations (individual and/or group), impromptu speech, and debate. 
1. Each student will deliver a one-minute speech on the topic related to the class content that day. Conference with the teacher before the presentation is required.
2. A group of two students will do the weekly ppt oral presentation for 8 minutes on the assigned chapter with a printed copy of the ppt file for the instructor. 
3. There are 2 projects required for this class. The first project before the mid-term exam, “CLC Buddy Project,” is an individual 2-minute report on a foreign student study companion of Chinese Language Center. 
4. The second project before the final exam is a group project, “Ideal Job Podcast” (5-minute long), which might include a podcast based an interview of professionals (might be in Chinese) whose jobs students are interested in, and students’ afterthoughts on the ideal job and the interview (1 minute) in English.
**Course Requirements and Grading**
Quizzes 10% 
Mid-term and Final Exams 50% 
Oral Presentation and Projects 30%
Class Performance 10%
**2025 Mid-Term project on My CLC Body instructions**
a student a project
1. You will be assigned randomly a Chinese Language Center (CLC) student to be 
your Buddy this semester
2. Contact your CLC Body and meet him/her in person or online
3. Help him/her practice Chinese
4. Ask him/her to teach you his/her language and culture
5. Draft an introduction about your CLC Body and his/her culture for your ppt 
presentation for 2 minutes in class 
6. The ppt file due on Oct 8 (file name: 1Jack on Jane)
7. The presentation day on Oct 15; the ppt file saved on the classroom computer 
screen before the class begins
6. A printed copy of your ppt file is required on the report day
**2025 Final Term project on Ideal Job Podcast**
2 students a project; name list due on Oct 22
1. Find a partner to form a group and choose a job you’d like to work on (It will be 
nice if you yourself would like to enter this field)
2. Find a representative model for this job and contact this person politely to ask for 
an interview
3. Draft your interview questions and your podcast content
1). What do/did you do?
2). How did you get this job?
3). What achievements or challenges have you had?
4). What character traits or abilities should one have to do your job well?
5). For a college student, what advice would this person give to prepare for the 
future job while still at school?
6). Take a photo and present a gift, if possible
3. Record the podcast
4. Prepare for the podcast presentation **with your afterthought** for 5 minutes
6. The ppt file due on Nov 16 (file name: 1Jack and Jane on Jenson Huang)
7. The presentation day on Dec 10; the ppt file saved on the classroom computer 
screen before the class begins
6. A printed copy of your ppt file is required on the report day
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Required Textbooks**
**Required Textbooks**
Macintyre, Paul. _Pathways 4: Listening, Speaking, and Critical Thinking_. Third
Edition. National Geographic Learning, 2025. 
**Recommended**
Nist, Sherrie L. and Carold Mohr. _Advancing Vocabulary Skills_. 3rd ed. Taipei: 
Townsend & Bookman, 2004. 
Barber, Daniel et al. _Voices_. National Geographic Learning, 2023.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:with the teacher's permission and instruction Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
10 am – 2 pm, Monday, Research 250738
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
