國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：進階英語口語訓練：新聞
#####  Course Name: Advanced English Oral Training: Journalistic English
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：501856011 Course No.501856011


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文二甲、英文二乙 Course Department:English/B/2 
  * 授課老師：吳承翰 Instructor: WU CHENG-HAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五567 Session: fri14-17


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course invites students to read news in English and express their ideas in a lucid manner. This course will not only enhance students’ communication skills, but also help them develop a comprehensive understanding of current events and social climate. For every week’s news reading, the instructor will choose two or three news articles ranging from health, lifestyle, crime, environment, education, technology, and entertainment. Please regularly check your NCCU email, have the weekly news printed, and bring it to the class. Assigned news articles are mostly from BBC News, CNN, New York Times, Time Magazine, and Washington Post. News clips will also be provided.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 掌握西方文學與文化發展的歷史文化脈絡，以熟悉不同文化觀點(To trace the historical and cultural transformations in Western literature in order to understand different cultural perspectives)
  * B. 具備西方文學與文化研究之相關知能以培養獨立思考與批判之能力(To acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for doing research on Western literature and culture in order to develop independent and critical judgment.)
  * C. 具備語言學的基礎專業知識，以培養觀察分析及推理能力(To acquire a basic knowledge of linguistics in order to foster the ability to make logical conclusions through observation and analysis)
  * D. 具備應用語言學及英語教學的基礎專業知識及實務應用能力 (To acquire knowledge of applied linguistics in order to make practical applications to methods of teaching English.)
  * E. 理解、分析及整合英文訊息並以口說英文充分表達自我與協調溝通 (To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.)
  * F. 解讀、分析及整合英文篇章並書寫不同主題及目的英文文章以表達自我並呈現個人思維邏輯(To understand, analyze, and synthesize articles in English and to write English papers on different topics and for different purposes to fully express oneself and to reason in written English.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of this course, students will be able to
  1. Analyze and summarize news articles
  2. Conduct and join mock interviews, press conferences, and news reports
  3. Engage in current events and delve into today’s social climate
  4. Express ideas clearly in English
  5. Spot the main idea in news articles


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Course Schedule:**
**Week** |  **Date** |  **Topic** |  **Students’ News Choice**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Sept 5 |  Introduction  
2 |  12 |  News Headlines and Structure |   
3 |  19 |  Breaking News |   
4 |  26 |  Culture, Arts, and Education |   
5 |  Oct 3 |  Politics |   
**6** |  **10** |  **National Holiday** |  **No class**  
7 |  17 |  **_Midterm Exam_**  
**8** |  **24** |  **National Holiday** |  **No class**  
9 |  31 |  Screening: _Morning Glory_  
10 |  Nov 7 |  Technology |   
11 |  14 |  Health and Medicine |   
12 |  21 |  Crime |   
13 |  28 |  Lifestyle |   
14 |  Dec 5 |  Entertainment |   
15 |  12 |  **_Final Exam_**  
16 |  19 |  Optional Online Meeting |  Webex link will be provided if online meeting is required  
  *     * Please note that the above contents may be adjusted based on students’ learning and the instructor’s needs. Major changes will be announced in class.
    * Webex online meeting will be arranged in week 16 if the instructor needs to speak with you. 


##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_25%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Course Requirements:**
  1. **Punctuality and Attendance**. The roll call will start at 13:10 sharp, so please come to class on time. Each tardiness will deduct 5 points from your final grade. Being late twice equals one absence. Each unjustified absence will reduce 10 points from your final grade. After three absences in total, you will fail the course.
  2. **Weekly Assignments**. There will be weekly news articles for you to read and worksheets that we shall do in the class. These activities (be they writing or speaking) will help you learn new words, drill sentence patterns, and engage in each news story. Make sure you finish reading the assigned news pieces before coming to the class.
  3. **Students’ News Choice**. Starting from week 3, a team of two or three students will take turns selecting a news article and sharing it with the class. The presenting team is in charge of 


  1. A brief summary (approximately 100–150 words)
  2. New vocabulary
  3. Idioms or useful expressions
  4. Sentence patterns or grammar points
  5. Any noteworthy language features or content highlights 
  6. An open question for discussion 


Please email the class your news choice a week before our meeting. The activity aims to help you refine paraphrasing skills, identify main ideas, and become more familiar with English news. **N.B.** You cannot choose the same news article as the instructor. 
  1. **M****idterm Exam** : Individual oral examination (15 minutes). The midterm exam consists in two parts. First, reflect on the most unforgettable news that we have covered in class so far. Explain why it stood up to you. Secondly, choose a current news article that caught your attention (not previously studied in class). Be prepared to have an open discussion about the article with the instructor, demonstrating your ability to summarize, analyze, and express personal views. 
  2. **F****inal Exam** : Mock News Report (20 minutes). For the final exam, a team of three or four members will deliver a 20-minute mock news report. Your presentation should include the following elemenst:


  1. At least one person acting as a news anchor
  2. Other members serving as on-site or subject-specific reporters 
  3. Any news topics of your choice, either real or fictitious 
  4. While not mandatory, the use of props, news slides, sound effects, or background music is highly welcome to enhance your news report.


Your mock news report should be coherent, well-organized, clear, and informative. Feel free to be creative, just ensure to maintain a professional tone for a news broadcast. 
**Grading Policy**
  1. Attendance 10%
  2. Weekly Assignments 20% 
  3. Students’ News Choice 20%
  4. Midterm Exam 20%
  5. Final Exam 30 %


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Useful Websites:**
  1. BBC http://news.bbc.co.uk
  2. CNN http://www.cnn.com
  3. El País English https://english.elpais.com/
  4. New York Times http://www.nytimes.com
  5. NPR https://www.npr.org
  6. Time Magazine https://time.com/
  7. Washington Post https://www.washingtonpost.com/


**Reference:**
  1. Hicks, Wynford, and Galvin Allen. _English for Journalists_. Routledge, 2023.
  2. _Morning Glory_. Directed by Roger Michell, Bad Robot / Paramount Pictures, 2010. 
  3. Rich, Carole. _Writing and Reporting News: A Coaching Method_. Wadsworth, Cengage Learning, 2010.


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:You may use AI tools for research and information gathering. However, relying on it to generate your entire presentation and reading it verbatim from an electronic device will not be tolerated. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
**Instructor** : Cheng-han Wu
**Class Time** : Fridays 13:10 ~ 16:00 
**Classroom** : Syue Sih Building 040107
**Office** : The EMI Resource Center (Admin Building, 8th Fl.)
**Office Hours** : Wednesdays 9:00 a.m. ~ 12:00 p.m. (preferably by appointment)
**E-mail** : chw5940@nccu.edu.tw
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
N/A 
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
