國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：心理語言學 
#####  Course Name: Introducion to Psycholinguistics
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：501833001 Course No.501833001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_36_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文三甲、英文三乙 Course Department:English/B/3 
  * 授課老師：薩文蕙 Instructor: SAH WEN-HUI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
Psycholinguistics stands at the crossroads of linguistics, psychology, computer science and neuroscience. This course aims to introduce basic issues in this interdisciplinary study that explores how human beings use their languages. The following major topics will be covered in our discussion: (1) language comprehension, (2) language production and (3) language acquisition.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 掌握西方文學與文化發展的歷史文化脈絡，以熟悉不同文化觀點(To trace the historical and cultural transformations in Western literature in order to understand different cultural perspectives)
  * B. 具備西方文學與文化研究之相關知能以培養獨立思考與批判之能力(To acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for doing research on Western literature and culture in order to develop independent and critical judgment.)
  * C. 具備語言學的基礎專業知識，以培養觀察分析及推理能力(To acquire a basic knowledge of linguistics in order to foster the ability to make logical conclusions through observation and analysis)
  * D. 具備應用語言學及英語教學的基礎專業知識及實務應用能力 (To acquire knowledge of applied linguistics in order to make practical applications to methods of teaching English.)
  * E. 理解、分析及整合英文訊息並以口說英文充分表達自我與協調溝通 (To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.)
  * F. 解讀、分析及整合英文篇章並書寫不同主題及目的英文文章以表達自我並呈現個人思維邏輯(To understand, analyze, and synthesize articles in English and to write English papers on different topics and for different purposes to fully express oneself and to reason in written English.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course provides a general introduction to the psychology of language. The course (1) provides students an overview of topics and the most important models in the field of psycholinguistics, and (2) help students develop logical and critical thinking through discussion of problems, and writing of research paper. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
_WK_ _Content_
1 Scope of psycholinguistic research 
2 Psychological mechanisms 
3 The science of language 
4 Perception for language 
5 Perception for language 
6 Visual word recognition
7 Visual word recognition 
**8****Mid-term Exam**
9 How is speech planned and produced
10 TBA 
11 Language development
12 Language development
13 TBA
14 **Oral presentation & discussion**
15 **Oral presentation & discussion**
16 **Paper due**
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_55%_
####  講述 Lecture
_25%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Attendance & Class participation 30%
Mid-term exam 15%
Oral presentation 10% 
Written report 35%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
(1) Books and on-line resource
Aitchison, J. (2004). _The articulate mammal: An introduction to psycholinguistics_. 4th ed. London: Routledge.
Carroll, D.W. (2008). _Psychology of language_. 5th ed. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth/Thomson Learning. (**PL-C**) 
Field, J. (2004). _Psycholinguistics: The key concepts_. London: Routledge.
Gazzaniga, M. &Mangun, G. (2014). _The cognitive neurosciences_. 5th ed. MIT Press.
Gernsbacher, M. A. (ed.) (1994). _Handbook of psycholinguistics_. San Diego: Academic Press.
Gianfranco, Denes. (2011)._Talking heads: The neuroscience of language_. Taylor & Francis
Gleason, J.B. & Ratner, N.B. (ed.) (2012). _Development of language_ , 8th ed. New York: Macmillan.
Gleason, J.B. & Ratner, N.B. (eds.) (1998). _Psycholinguistics_ , 2nd ed. Orlando: Harcourt Brace.
Harley, Trevor A. (2010). _Talking the Talk: Language, Psychology and Science_. New York, NY: Psychology Press.
Harley, Trevor. (2014). _The psychology of language: From data to theory_. 4th ed. New York, NY: Psychology Press. (**TPL-H**)
Jay, T. B. (2003). _The psychology of language_. New Jersey: Pearson Education. 
Kennison, Shelia M. (2019). _Psychology of language: Theory and applications_. Macmillan. (**PL-K**)
Ludden, David C. (2015). _The psychology of language: An integrated approach_. SAGE Publications (**TPL-L**)
Ortega, Lourdes. (2009). _Understanding second language acquisition_. Oxford Univ Press.
Matthews, Danielle (ed.) (2014). _Pragmatic development in first language acquisition_. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Menn, Lise, & Dronkers, Nina F. (2015). _Psycholinguistics: Introduction and Applications_ , 2nd ed. Plural Publishing.
Rueckl, Jay G., Paz-Alonsoc, Pedro M., Molfese, Peter J., Kuo, Wen-Jui, Bicke, Atira, Frost, Stephen,…, and Frost, Ram. (2015). Universal brain signature of proficient reading: Evidence from four contrasting languages. _Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America (PNAS)_ , 112 (50) 15510–15515. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1509321112
Sedivy, Julie. (2019). _Language in mind: An introduction to psycholinguistics_. Sinauer Associates. 
Tomasello, M. (2000). The item-based nature of children's early syntactic development. In M. Tomasello and E. Bates (eds.), _Language development: The essential reading_ , (pp. 169-186). Malden, MA: Blackwell. 
Traxler, Matthew J. (2023). _Introduction to psycholinguistics: Understanding language science_ , 2nd ed. John Wiley & Sons. 
Warren, Paul. (2013). _Introducing psycholinguistics._ Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press. (**InPsy**)
(2) Films
BBC Brain story (VB 598.916248)
CSMI (https://www.indiana.edu/~cogfilms/): an online collection of movies showcasing various themes in cognitive science
Human Language Series (VC 410 H918)
The Brain: Our universe within memory (Discovery Channel) (大腦與記憶 VB 508 465 V. 152)
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
by appointment (Room 820, Research Bldg.)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
