國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：聖經與文學 
#####  Course Name: Bible and Literature
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：501925001 Course No.501925001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_40_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文二甲、英文二乙 Course Department:English/B/2 
  * 授課老師：姜翠芬 Instructor: JIANG TSUI-FEN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
**Course Outline**
We will examine the main themes, characters, types and symbols of the Bible. We will also examine the development of the Bible as literature, literary allusions to the Bible, and current trends in literature as they are developing. We will pay particular attention to Biblical passages that have had profound impact upon literature as well as contemporary literary use of Biblical material. Biblical passages that will be covered by this course include selections from Genesis, Samuel, Gospels, Acts, and Revelation. Selective authors and works include John Milton, Goethe, St Augustine, John Donne, John Dryden, Geoffrey Chaucer, Elizabeth Bishop, Christina Rossetti, William Wordsworth, Charlotte Bronte, John Bunyan, Oscar Wilde, T. S. Eliot, Emily Dickinson, Dylan Thomas, W. B. Yeats, Thomas Mann, Franz Kafka, D. H. Lawrence, Herman Melville, James Joyce, Roland Barthes, Soren Kierkegaard, Jacques Derrida, Erick Auerbach, etc. Some films relative to the class materials, such as _The Scarlet Letter_ , _The Passion_ , _2012_ , _The Insult_ , and _Hacksaw Ridge_ will be also included.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 掌握西方文學與文化發展的歷史文化脈絡，以熟悉不同文化觀點(To trace the historical and cultural transformations in Western literature in order to understand different cultural perspectives)
  * B. 具備西方文學與文化研究之相關知能以培養獨立思考與批判之能力(To acquire the knowledge and skills necessary for doing research on Western literature and culture in order to develop independent and critical judgment.)
  * C. 具備語言學的基礎專業知識，以培養觀察分析及推理能力(To acquire a basic knowledge of linguistics in order to foster the ability to make logical conclusions through observation and analysis)
  * D. 具備應用語言學及英語教學的基礎專業知識及實務應用能力 (To acquire knowledge of applied linguistics in order to make practical applications to methods of teaching English.)
  * E. 理解、分析及整合英文訊息並以口說英文充分表達自我與協調溝通 (To understand, analyze, and synthesize information in English and to fully express oneself and to communicate with others clearly in oral English.)
  * F. 解讀、分析及整合英文篇章並書寫不同主題及目的英文文章以表達自我並呈現個人思維邏輯(To understand, analyze, and synthesize articles in English and to write English papers on different topics and for different purposes to fully express oneself and to reason in written English.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Course Objective
This course examines various ways in which the Bible has impacted Western Literature, particularly in terms of cultural artifact. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Bible and Literature weekly schedule**
Week Date Class
1. 9.2 Introduction to the course; Library (Video: _Hacksaw Ridge_) 
The class will meet at 4F, Information Classroom資料檢索教室
Daxian 達賢 Library at 1:10 pm
2. 9.9 **1. The Creation (Genesis 1-2) 65-79**
T. S. Eliot, choruses from ‘The Rock’
C. S. Lewis, _The Magician’s Nephew_
**1. In the Beginning Was the Word (John 1: 1-18) 80-93**
Jacques Derrida, _Of Grammatology_
3. 9.16 **2. The Fall (Genesis 3: 1-13) 94-109**
John Milton, _Paradise_ _Lost_
William Golding, _Free Fall_
**3. The Sacrifice of Isaac (Genesis 22: 1-19) 110-122**
Søren Kierkegaard, Fear and Trembling
4. 9.23 **4. Jacob and Esau (Genesis 27: 15-35) 123-133**
**4. Wrestling Jacob (Genesis 32: 22-31) 134-146**
Emily Dickinson, ‘A Little East of Jordan’
Christina Rossetti, ‘Weeping We Hold Him Fast Tonight’
Roland Barthes, ‘The Struggle with the Angel’
5.  9.30  **5. David and Bathsheba (2 Samuel 11: 1-27) 147-158**
John Dryden, _Absalom and Achitophel_
Nathaniel Hawthorne, _The Scarlet Letter_
Joseph Heller, _God Knows_
6. 10.7 Supplement: The Book of Job, Daniel, Esther
Speech by Dr. Hsin-Chih Perng (Topic to be announced) 
7. 10.14 **Mid-term exam**
8. 10.21 **6. The Nativity (Matthew 2: 1-12; Luke 2: 1-19) 203-220**
T. S. Eliot, ‘The Journey of the Magi’
9. 10.28 **7. The Problems of the Parables (Mark 4:1-20) 221-239**
Frank Kermode, _The Genesis of Secrecy_
Søren Kierkegaard, ‘Either/Or’
Franz Kafka, _The Trial_
Jorge Luis Borges, _Labyrinths: Selected Stories and Other_
_Writings_
10. 11.4 **8. Jesus and the Samaritan Woman (John 4: 1-30) 240-254**
Wells’
**8. Jesus and Mary in the Garden (John 20: 10-18) 285-297**
Michele Roberts, _The Wild Girl_
11. 11.11 **9. The Crucifixion (Mark 15: 33-39) 268-284**
_The Dream of the Rood_
James Joyce, _A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man_
12. 11.18 **10. The Conversion of St Paul (Acts 9: 1-19) 298-313**
Francis Thompson, ‘The Hound of Heaven’
Jacques Derrida, _Memoirs of the Blind_
Bible Related Literature/Film Term Project Topic and Outline Due
13. 11.25 Film Discussion: _Hacksaw Ridge_ , _The Insult_
14. 12.2 **11. Alpha and Omega (Revelation 21; 1-18) 314-326**
Flannery O’Connor, _Everything That Rises Must Converge_
Film Discussion: _2012_
15. 12.9 Bible Related Literature/Film Term Project Presentation
Bible Related Literature/Film Term Project draft due
16. 12.16 **Final-exam**
Term Paper on a Bible Related Literature or Film Due
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_70%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_10%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Teaching Methods**
The class will be conducted in the form of teacher’s lecture, students’ presentation, and small group discussion, all in English. All students are encouraged to participate in class discussion.
**Course Requirements and Grading**
A quiz will be given to students before the weekly assigned reading is taught in class. Students will be divided into small groups to do a 15-minute oral presentation related to the reading topics and lead the discussion. A mid-term examination and final examination will be given in class according to the class schedule. Students need to do their research to find a literary work related to the Bible and write a 3-page term paper to demonstrate their ability to see the link between the Bible and literature. Students need to go to Da-Hsian Seetoo Library to watch two films, _The Insult_ and _Hacksaw Ridge_ and write journals/critiques.
Quizzes and journals/critiques 15% 
Oral Presentation & Discussion 20% 
Mid-term Exam 25% 
Final Exam 25%
3-page Term Paper on a Bible Related Literature or Film 15% 
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Textbook:
Jasper, David and Stephen Prickett. eds. _The Bible and Literature: A Reader._ Oxford: Blackwell, 1999. 
Reference:
Bevan, David. _Literature and the Bible._ Amsterdam; Atlanta, GA : Rodopi, 1993.
Detweiler, Robert, David Jasper, Heidi Nordberg, and S. Brent Plate. _Religion and Literature: A Reader._ Louisville, Ky.: Westminster John Knox Press, 2000.
Dyas, Dee and Esther Hughes. _The Bible in Western Culture: The Student’s Guide._ New York: Routledge, 2005. 
Gabel, John B., Charles B. Wheeler and Anthony D. York. _The Bible as Literature: An Introduction._ 4th ed. New York: Oxford UP, 2000. 
* Hass, Andrew, David Jasper, and Elisabeth Jay, eds. _The Oxford Handbook of English Literature and Theology_. Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press, 2007.
Henn, Thomas Rice. _The Bible as Literature._ Cambridge: the Lutterworth Press, 2008.
Hunns, Derek J._Bulgakov’s Apocalyptic Critique of Literature: The Use of Dante’s The Divine Comedy, Goethe’s Faust, and The Bible in The Master and Margarita._ New York: Edwin Mellen, 1996. 
Prickett, Stephen, and Robert Barnes. _The Bible._ Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1991.
*Sawyer, John F.A., ed. _The Blackwell Companion to the Bible in English Literature._ Malden, Mass.: Blackwell Pub., 2006.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:With teacher's permission Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
10 am - 2 pm, Mon , Research 250738
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
