國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：中東專題研究
#####  Course Name: Seminar in Middle Eastern Studies
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：502942001 Course No.502942001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：阿文三、阿文四 Course Department:Arabic Language and Culture/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：張景安 Instructor: CHANG CHING-AN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12 


##  課程簡介Course Description
Middle Eastern studies includes a wide spectrum of important topics. For the purpose of helping students earn a comprehensive idea of the scopes of the Middle Eastern studies, this course aims at discussing various crucial research topics related to the Middle East. The course consists of 6 parts, religion, society, culture, politics, economy, and gender. Except politics taking three weeks lecturing, the rest of the topics will be conducted two weeks respectively.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業創新Acquiring Professional Innovative Abilities
  * B. 人文關懷Advocating the Culturally Care Spirit
  * C. 國際視野Developing an International Perspective 
  * D. 人際與公民能力Cultivating Civic Competences


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
At the end of the class, students will learn various important topics related to the Middle Eastern studies, and have the abilities to develop their own research agenda on the Middle East.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  Introduction |  Introduction to the course |  |  |   
2 |  Religion (1): sectarian issue | 
  1. Frederic Wehrey,  _Beyond Sunni and Shia: The roots of sectarianism in a changing Middle East_ , Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2017 (Ch. 1).
  2. Toby Matthiesen,  _The Other Saudis: Shiism, Dissent and Sectarianism_ , New York: Cambridge University Press (Intro.).

| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar

|  3 |  6  
3 |  Religion (2): Islamic law and finance | 
  1. Wael B. Hallaq,  _An Introduction to Islamic Law_ , Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2009 (Intro-Ch.2).
  2. Ibrahim Warde,  _Islamic Financa in the Global Economy_. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, 2000 (Intro. & Ch. 1).

| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar

|  3 |  6  
4 |  Society (2): kinship | 
  1. Suad Joseph, “Brother/Sister Relationships: Connectivity, Love, and Power in the Reproduction of Patriarchy in Lebanon,”  _American Ethnologist_ (1994) 21:1.
  2. Jillian Schwedler (ed.),  _Understanding the contemporary Middle East_ , Boulder: Lynne Rienner, 2008 (Ch.10)

| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar

|  3 |  6  
5 |  Culture (1): Islamic culture | 
  1. Nur Kirabaev and Yuriy Pochta (ed.),  _Values in Islamic Culture and the Experience of History: Russian Philosophical Studies, I_ , Washington: The Council for Research in Values and Philosophy, 2002 (Ch.1).
  2. Daniel G. Bates and Amal Rassam,_Peoples and Cultures of the Middle East_ , New Jersy:Prentice-Hall, 1983 (Ch.3).

|  |  3 |  6  
6 |  Culture (2): popular culture | 
  1. Andrew Hammond,  _Pop Culture Arab World! Media, Arts, and Lifestyle_ , Santa Barbara: ABC-CLIO, 2005 (Ch.1).
  2. Walid El-Hamamsy and Mounira Soliman (eds.),  _Popular Culture in the Middle East and North Africa: A postolonial outlook_ , New York & London: Routledge, 2013 (Intro. & Ch12).

| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar

|  3 |  6  
7 |  Midterm |  |  |  |   
8 |  Economy (1): pre-oil Middle East | 
  1. Hossein Askari,  _Collaborative Colonialism: The Political Economy of Oil in the Persian Gulf_ , New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2013 (Ch.1).
  2. Charles Issawi,  _An economic history of the Middle East and North Africa_ , New York: Columbia University Press, 1982 (Ch.1).

| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar

|  3 |  6  
9 |  Economy (2): discovery of oil | 
  1. Michael L. Ross,  _The Oil Curse: How Petroleum Wealth Shapes the Development of Nations_ , Princeton & Oxford: Princeton University Press, 2012 (Ch.1).
  2. Simone Tagliapietra,  _The political economy of Middle East and North Africa oil exporters in times of global decarbonisation_ , Working paper, Bruegel, 2017.
  3. Tyler Priest, “The Dilemmas of Oil Empire,”  _Journal of American History_ , 2012, 99:1.
  4. Jillian Schwedler (ed.),  _Understanding the contemporary Middle East_ , Boulder: Lynne Rienner, 2008 (Ch.8).

| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar

|  3 |  6  
10 |  Politics (1): state formation | 
  1. Iliya Harik, “The origins of the Arab state system,”  _The International Spectator: Italian Journal of International Affairs_ , 1985, 20:2.
  2. Kenneth Christie and Mohammad Masad (eds.)  _State Formation and Identity in the Middle East and North Africa_ , New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2013 (Ch. 1).
  3. Roger Owen,  _State, Power and Politics in the Making of the Modern Middle East_ , London & New York:Routledge, 2004 (Ch.1).

| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar

|  3 |  6  
11 |  Politics (2): state system | 
  1. Lisa Anderson, Absolutism and the Resilience of Monarchy in the Middle East,  _Political Science Quarterly_ , 1991, 106:1.
  2. Mehran Kamrava,  _The Modern Middle East_ , Berkeley, University of California Press, 2011 (Ch. 9).
  3. Claudia Derichs and Thomas Demmelhuber, “Monarchies and Republics, State and Regime, Durability and Fragility in View of the Arab Spring,”  _Journal of Arabian Studies_ , 2014, 4:2.

| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar

|  3 |  6  
12 |  Politics (3): regional and international relations | 
  1. Raymond Hinnebusch and Anoushiravan Ehteshami (eds.),  _The Foreign Policies of Middle East States_ , Boulder: Lynne Rienner, 2002 (Ch.2 & 3).

| 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar

|  3 |  6  
13 |  Essay discussion | Discuss the final essay writing with the course organiser. |  |  3 |  6  
14 |  Gender (1): LGBT |  Katerina Dalacoura, Homosexuality as cultural battleground in the Middle East: culture and postcolonial international theory, Third World Quarterly, 2014, 35:7.  Stephen Murray and Will Roscoe, Islamic homosexualities: Culture, history, and literature, New York & London: New York University Press (Ch.2). | 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar

|  3 |  6  
15 |  Migration, Refugee, and diaspora in MENA |  Fiddian-Qasmiyeh, Elena and others, ‘Introduction: Refugee and Forced Migration Studies in Transition’, in Elena Fiddian-Qasmiyeh and others (eds), _The Oxford Handbook of Refugee and Forced Migration Studies_. Coming to and coming from the Middle East: The unfolding of diaspora, Abdelhady, D. & Aly, R. (2022) in Abdelhady, D. & Aly, R. (eds) _Routledge Handbook on Middle Eastern Diasporas_ , London: Routledge. | 
  1. preview
  2. lecture
  3. seminar

|  3 |  6   
16 |  Presentations |  Group presentation. |  |  3 |  6  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  1. Group presentation (10%)
  2. Participation in seminar (35%)
  3. A 3000 words essay related to the Middle East conflict (50%).
  4. Attendenance (5%).
  5. **_Plagiarism will be given zero marks for the course._**


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  1. Anderson, L., Absolutism and the Resilience of Monarchy in the Middle East,  _Political Science Quarterly_ , 1991, 106:1.
  2. Armstrong, K.,  _Islam: A Short History_ , New York: Modern Library, 2002.
  3. Askari, H.,  _Collaborative Colonialism: The Political Economy of Oil in the Persian Gulf_ , New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2013.
  4. Bates, D.G., and Amal Rassam,_Peoples and Cultures of the Middle East_ , New Jersy:Prentice-Hall, 1983.
  5. Catherwood, C.,  _A brief history of the Middle East_ , New York: Carroll & Graf Publishers, 2006.
  6. Christie, K. and Mohammad Masad (eds.)  _State Formation and Identity in the Middle East and North Africa_ , New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2013.
  7. Dalacoura, K., Homosexuality as cultural battleground in the Middle East: culture and postcolonial international theory,  _Third World Quarterly_ , 2014, 35:7.
  8. Derichs, C. and Thomas Demmelhuber, “Monarchies and Republics, State and Regime, Durability and Fragility in View of the Arab Spring,”  _Journal of Arabian Studies_ , 2014, 4:2.
  9. El-Hamamsy, W. and Mounira Soliman (eds.),  _Popular Culture in the Middle East and North Africa: A postolonial outlook_ , New York & London: Routledge, 2013.
  10. Hallaq, W.B.,  _An Introduction to Islamic Law_ , Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2009.
  11. Hammond, A.,  _Pop Culture Arab World! Media, Arts, and Lifestyle_ , Santa Barbara: ABC-CLIO, 2005.
  12. Harik, I., “The origins of the Arab state system,”  _The International Spectator: Italian Journal of International Affairs_ , 1985, 20:2.
  13. Hinnebusch, R. and Anoushiravan Ehteshami (eds.),  _The Foreign Policies of Middle East States_ , Boulder: Lynne Rienner, 2002.
  14. Issawi, C.,  _An economic history of the Middle East and North Africa_ , New York: Columbia University Press, 1982.
  15. Joseph, S., “Brother/Sister Relationships: Connectivity, Love, and Power in the Reproduction of Patriarchy in Lebanon,”  _American Ethnologist_ (1994) 21:1.
  16. Kamrava, M.,  _The Modern Middle East_ , Berkeley, University of California Press, 2011.
  17. Khoury, P.S. and Joseph Kostiner (eds.),  _Tribes and state formation in the Middle East_ , Berkeley: University of California Press, 1990.
  18. Kirabaev, N. and Yuriy Pochta (ed.),  _Values in Islamic Culture and the Experience of History: Russian Philosophical Studies, I_ , Washington: The Council for Research in Values and Philosophy, 2002.
  19. Matthiesen, T.,  _The Other Saudis: Shiism, Dissent and Sectarianism_ , New York: Cambridge University Press.
  20. Murray, S. and Will Roscoe,  _Islamic homosexualities: Culture, history, and literature_ , New York & London: New York University Press.
  21. Owen, R.,  _State, Power and Politics in the Making of the Modern Middle East_ , London & New York:Routledge, 2004.
  22. Priest, T., “The Dilemmas of Oil Empire,”  _Journal of American History_ , 2012, 99:1.
  23. Ross, M.L.,  _The Oil Curse: How Petroleum Wealth Shapes the Development of Nations_ , Princeton & Oxford: Princeton University Press, 2012.
  24. Salhi, Z. S.,  _Gender and violence in Islamic societies: Patriarchy, Islamism and Politics in the Middle East and North Africa_ , London & New York: I.B. Tauris, 2013.
  25. Schwedler, J., (ed.),  _Understanding the contemporary Middle East_ , Boulder: Lynne Rienner, 2008.
  26. Tagliapietra, S.,  _The political economy of Middle East and North Africa oil exporters in times of global decarbonisation_ , Working paper, Bruegel, 2017.
  27. Warde, I.,  _Islamic Financa in the Global Economy_. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, 2000.
  28. Wehrey, F.,  _Beyond Sunni and Shia: The roots of sectarianism in a changing Middle East_ , Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2017.


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Thurs. 14:00-16:00, 研究大樓 732。
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
