國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：波蘭文（二） 
#####  Course Name: Polish II
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：504927001 Course No.504927001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_40_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：斯語三甲、斯語三乙 Course Department:Slavic Languages and Literatures/B/3 
  * 授課老師：貝娜煦 Instructor: Bednarz Karolina Aneta 
  * 先修科目：[ 大學外文（一）：波蘭文(單學期)(修習且及格) 或 大學外文（二）：波蘭文(單學期)(修習且及格) 或 波蘭文（一）(全學年)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([ or or])
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is the continuation of the Polish I course. It ensures a solid command of the grammatical structures in a practical communicative context. Students will develop four key linguistic competences: listening, reading, speaking and writing based not only on textbooks but also on authentic materials (e.g. announcements, commercials, excerpts from TV programs, surveys, songs). The contents of the course include subjects related to everyday life situations. The aim of the course is to enable students to communicate in Polish on a variety of practical everyday matters.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備基本語言能力
  * B. 具備語言實務應用能力
  * C. 具備斯拉夫知識基本知能
  * D. 具備人文素養及國際宏觀視野


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the course students will be able to: 
- understand sentences and frequently used expressions related to areas of most immediate relevance (e.g. very basic personal and family information, shopping, local geography, employment) 
- communicate in simple and routine tasks requiring a simple and direct exchange of information on familiar and routine matters 
- describe in simple terms aspects of their background, immediate environment and matters in areas of immediate need.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
WEEK |  TOPIC |  CONTENT  
---|---|---  
1 |  _Dlaczego uczysz się polskiego?_ |  review and practice  
2-3 |  _Co robisz dzisiaj?_ |  talking about daily routines hours, times of day, days of the week conjugation of the verbs: _brać, myć się, spać, iść, chodzić, jechać, jeździć, umieć, wiedzieć, znać, spotykać się, spotykać_ modal verbs: _chceć, musieć, móc_ personal pronoun - Instrumental  
4-5 |  |  _Co robiłeś wczoraj?_ |   
---|---  
talking about free time activities  simple time expressions  ordinal numbers  past tense (imperfective)  
6-7 |  _Jak dojść do centrum?_ |  asking for and giving directions  verbs: _iść, chodzić, jechać, jeździć_  
8 |  _Egzamin śródsemestralny_ |  midterm examination  
9-10 |  _Karton czy pudełko?_ |  quantities and measures  Nominative and Accusative plural (repetition and consolidation)  Genitive plural   
11-12 |  _Jaka jutro będzie pogoda?_ |  talking about the weather seasons and months of the year celebrations throughout the year and in the family talking about future plans future tense (imperfective aspect)  
13-14 |  _Co lubisz robić?_ |  expressing preferences  _lubić + infinitivie_ construction  conjucation _–ę –esz_  
15 |  _Powtórzenie i utrwalenie materiału_ |  repetition and consolidation   
16 |  _Egzamin_ |  final examination  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_10%_
####  講述 Lecture
_40%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_25%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Students are able to recognize typical communication situations in which single statements appear, short rejoinders as part of a short dialogue and short monologue statements on topics included in the Syllabus, formulated in a standard form of the language. They understand explicit communication intentions in statements regarding basic needs  
everyday life, can recognize the topic of the text (global understanding) and find simple information contained in it in a short statement with a simplified structure (detailed understanding), spoken slowly and very clearly, in very good (close to ideal) acoustic conditions, with pronunciation and intonation adapted to the possibilities  
student's perceptual skills at this level.
Students understand and apply the differences between the official and unofficial varieties of Polish according to the situation. They know and use some sociocultural conventions applicable in communication in Polish.
Students demonstrate limited mastery of simple sentence structures and patterns - within the framework of the learned resource.
Deficiencies in pronunciation, vocabulary, grammatical correctness and spelling should not occur significantly disrupt communication.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
I. Stempek, A. Stelmach, S. Dawidek, A. Szymkiewicz: _Polski, krok po kroku 1_. _Student’s book_ , Glossa
I. Stempek, M. Grudzień: _Polski, krok po kroku 1_. _Workbook_ , Glossa 
L. Madelska, G. Schwartz: _Discovering Polish. A Learner's Grammar_ , Prolog
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:The use of AI for translating texts, preparing written statements, checking for errors, etc. is prohibited.  Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
lektor.bednarz@gmail.com
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
