國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：捷語會話（二）
#####  Course Name: Czech Conversation II
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：504901001 Course No.504901001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：斯語三甲、斯語三乙 Course Department:Slavic Languages and Literatures/B/3 
  * 授課老師：赫萊娜 Instructor: Hrdlickova Helena 
  * 先修科目：[ 捷克文（一）(單學期)(修習且及格) 或 捷語會話（一）(單學期)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([ or])
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course continues Czech Conversation I and is based for students who have basic knowledge of Czech language. It provides linguistic tools necessary both for production and reception of (mostly oral) Czech language.
The goal is to enable students a better understanding of communicative situations and lifestyle in the Czech Republic. At the end of this course, level A2/1 according to the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFRL) will be achieved.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備基本語言能力
  * B. 具備斯拉夫知識基本知能
  * C. 具備人文素養及國際宏觀視野
  * D. 具備語言實務應用能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The main objective of this course is to reach a level A2/1 "waystage" by the end of this course. It is designed to:
- improve, develop language skills (reading, writing, speaking, listening)
- gain more information on Czech culture, geography and lifestyle
- allow students to communicate in everday situations (ie with/about family and relatives, friends, leisure time, birthday party, at the doctors, emergency situation, in shops and other services), 
- to improve a confidence when speaking Czech;
- remove hesitation and fear of errors during productive language activities;
- be able to apply theoretical knowledge in practice;
- arouse interest in Czech culture and related activities;
The students should reach in one academic semester Level A2/1 of CEFRL (in addition with classes of Czech language II), which corresponds to at least 3 lessons from the main teaching material Kestřánková, M. a kol.: Čeština pro cizince úroveň A1 a A2.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Weekly** **Week** |  **Course Topics** **Topic** |  **Course Content and Assigned Readings** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **Teaching Activities and Assignments** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **Learning to invest time** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**Classroom Lectures** **In-class Hours** |  **Before and After Course** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 9/2 |  Introduction |  Revision of the previous semester. Verbs conjugation, modal verbs (present and past tense, accusative) (L5) |  Warm-up Activities, Listening, Pronunciation Exercises |  |   
2 9/9 |  How can I get there? |  Orientation in the city, verbs of motion (jít-chodit, jet-jezdit); KDE? KAM? past tense - irregular forms, instrumental sg. (L5) |  Reading, Listening and Speaking, Grammar Drill |  |   
3 9/16 |  Leisure time in Prague |  Local prepositions, DO+genitive, NA+accusative, K/KE+ dative; invitation to an event/ a trip; the genitive; making a question (L5) |  Writing, Work in Groups, Roleplay |  |   
4 September 23 |  Czech customs, birthday party, trip to… |  Complete overview of the declination of accusative declension (nouns, pronouns, possessive pronouns, adjectives); functions of the case (verbs, prepositions, frequently used phrases) (L5) |  Watching Short Didactic Films, Brainstorming, Speaking |  |   
5 9/30 |  Who is who? |  Protagonists of the story; Verbal aspect in Czech language; perfectives and imperfectives verbs; the genitiv (L6) |  Reading and Writing, Project Work |  |   
6 10/7 |  Daily Routine |  Transformation of texts in the past tense to the future tense and vice versa. (What did Eva and Petr do yesterday? …); verbal prefixes. WHEN? (L6) |  Grammar Drill, Reading, Writing, Dialogues |  |   
7 10/14 |  Czech National Holidays! |  Dates of important days; genitive, nominative case (masculine inanimates, feminine and neuter gender) (L6) |  Brainstorming, Speaking, Presentations |  |   
8 10/21 |  Mid-terms |  Mid-term tests, students feedback (L5,6) |  Testing (Written Exam) |  |   
9 10/28 |  Cultural Activities In a restaurant |  Czech Days at NCCU; vocabulary; reading and writing; videos; complaints; abreviations (L7) |  Listening and Watching of Didactic Short Videos, Speaking, Writing |  |   
10 11/4 |  In a travel agency |  Traveling in the Czech Republic; genitive plural; verbs of motion; future tense (L7) |  Listening, Writing, Grammar Drill |  |   
11 11/11 |  Czech cuisine |  Czech specialties; negation in a Czech sentence, negative and indefinitive adjectives and adverbs (L7) |  Listening, Roleplay, Writing Exercises |  |   
12 11/18 |  Where do you go? |  Everyday services, at a post office, in a bank, at school, at the police station, locative sg, Where do you want to study? (L8) |  Listening, Speaking, Role-Play |  |   
13 11/25 |  Important personalities in Czech history! |  Famous Czechs; Interrogative pronouns – declination (nominative, genitive, accusative and locative); formulation of questions (L8) |  Listening, Speaking, Grammar Drill, Project Work |  |   
14 12/2 |  Everyday services |  Services: room-painting, shoe repair shop, car service, hairdresser´s, cosmetics, tailoring, optics, petrol station, internet café; useful expressions; vocabulary. in the laundry, in the internet-café, at the hotel´s reception; |  Watching of Short Didactic Movies, Dialogues, Roleplay |  |   
15 12/9 |  Review |  Final Revision and Practice |  Reviewing, writing, dictate |  |   
16 12/16 |  Finals |  Final Exams L 5, 6, 7, 8 (Written Test and Oral Exam); Student´s Feedback |  Testing |  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_5%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_5%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Domácí úkoly (ústní a písemná cvičení, slovní zásoba atd.) zadávané pro každou hodinu. Písemné domácí úkoly (cvičení nebo texty) budou hodnoceny, každá zadaná částka je 1,5 %.
Docházka: maximální počet nepřítomných jsou _tři_ .
Známkování bude 100 % až nula; 60 % je minimum pro úspěch.
Kvízy, domácí úkoly, prezentace, aktivní účast v hodině: celkem 30 %
Závěrečná zkouška, testy: celkem 70 %
(Závěrečná zkouška – čtení, poslech, psaní, mluvení, gramatika a slovní zásoba, ústní zkouška.)
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Kestřánková, M. a kol.: Čeština pro cizince úroveň A1 a A2, Edika Brno 2017 (ISBN: 978-80-266-1187-5)
Wenzel, J., Švarcová, T., Klimešová, A.: Czech it UP! 2, učebnice A2, UPOL 2021 (ISBN: 978-80-244-6102-1)
Wenzel, J., Švarcová: Czech it UP! 2, cvičebnice A2, UPOL 2022 (ISBN: 978-80-244-6103-8)
Adamovičová, Ana a Ivanovová, Darina: Základy češtiny II. Praha: Karolinum, 2013 (ISBN: 978-80-246-2514-0)
Holá, Lída a Bořilová, Pavla: Akropolis, 2014 (ISBN: 978-80-7470-032-3)
Rešková, Ivana a Pintarová, Magdalena: Komunikativní čeština (Elementary Czech): ÚJOP UK, 2009 (ISBN: 80-901 947-2-9)
Naughton, James: Routledge Londýn a New York, 2005 (ISBN: 0-415-28784-7, 0-415-28785-5)
Malá, Zdena: Akropolis, 2019 (ISBN: 978-80-7470-260-0) 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
https://www.czechstepbystep.cz/en/cestina-on-line

http://www.l-pack.eu/ 

https://www.korpus.cz/  
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Tuesdays 13:10-16:00 DaoFan
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
