國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：韓國學概論
#####  Course Name: Introduction to Korean Studies
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：507052001 Course No.507052001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_50_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：韓文一 Course Department:Korean Language and Culture/B/1 
  * 授課老師：權景祿 Instructor: KWON KYUNG ROK 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course aims to help students gain a foundational understanding of the Korean language and Korean Studies. It serves as a preparatory class for more advanced courses in the field.  
  
1. To acquire basic knowledge necessary to understand Korean society by covering a wide range of topics such as everyday life, culture, history, society, and politics.
  
2. To explore key concepts, values, events, cultural phenomena, and heritage relevant to understanding Korean society, and to understand how these elements are interconnected.
  
3. To introduce how Koreans have thought and lived in practice.
  
4. To explore similarities and differences between Korea and Taiwan through comparative analysis of each topic. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備基礎語言能力 Basic language skills
  * B. 具備人文素養及知識 Humanity literacy & science
  * C. 具備卓越之專業實務能力 Practical ability


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
1. Develop a foundational and comprehensive understanding of Korea.
  
2. Cultivate the ability to explore and present topics of personal interest.
  
3. Gain comparative insight into Korean and Taiwanese societies  

##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Weekly Topics:**
**Week 1.****Course Introduction**
**Week 2. Making Korean name & ****Starting from Gyeongbokgung Palace:**
From King Sejong and Admiral Yi Sun-sin to BTS & A Tour of Seoul
**Week 3 & 4. The History of "K":**
The History of K-Drama, K-Film, and K-Pop
Major Companies & The Big Four Entertainment Agencies / From X generation to Z generation in Korea
From Do you know Kimchi to Do you know Psy?
**Week 5 & 6. ****Society & Culture :**
Age Culture, University Entrance Exams, and Campus Culture: Why is Age So Important in Korea?
Military Service and Workplace Culture: Comparing the MZ Generation in Korea and Taiwan
**Week 7 & 8** **Midterm Presentations**
**Week 9 & 10 History**
**A Look into the Joseon Dynasty**
Why the Joseon Dynasty? As History and as a Social Phenomenon
What Do the Ming and Qing Dynasties Mean to Korea & Taiwan?
**Japan and North Korea**
Korea–Japan Relations & Inter-Korean Relations
What Do Japan and China Mean to Taiwan?
**Week 11. Food Culture**
History & Origin 
Ramen, Gimbap, and Buldak Bokkeum Myeon 
**Week 12 &13. **Society****
Regionalism and Feminism
Metropolitan Centralization and the Chaebol (Conglomerate) Problem 
Inequality in Korea
**Week 14 & 15 Politics **
Democratization Movement in Korea
**Week 16.****Final Presentations**
**Participation Assignment**
Each week, questions comparing Taiwan and Korea will be assigned; students are required to prepare short insights and responses (about 2-3 minutes)
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_10%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_30%_
####  其他： Others: Presentation 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  * Attendance: 10%
  * Participation: 30% (Each week, questions comparing Taiwan and Korea will be assigned; students are required to prepare short insights and responses (about 2-3 minutes))
  * Midterm Presentation: 20% 
  * Final Presentation: 40%


**Midterm & Final Presentation Guidelines**
For the **midterm exam** , students are required to choose **one topic** and present a **comparison between Korean and Taiwanese society** (approx. **5 minutes**).  
The instructor will provide more detailed instructions and specific guiding questions for the midterm presentation.
Students will **develop the same topic further** and give a more in-depth presentation for the **final exam** (approx. **10 minutes**).
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Lecture slides and PDF materials will be provided by the instructor.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Research Building 515 
Office Hours: By appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Not yet decided
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
