國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：韓國媒體、文化與社會
#####  Course Name: Media, Culture and Korean Society
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：507813001 Course No.507813001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：韓文一 Course Department:Korean Language and Culture/B/1 
  * 授課老師：林侑毅 Instructor: LIN YU-YI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D5 Session: wed13-15
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course provides a thematic overview of the intellectual questions, methodological challenges, and leading research being developed in the field of Korean media and cultural studies. We will pay particular attention to the origin, history, development, and current contestations of mass media institutions, technologies, and related popular cultural images/forms/practices in modern and contemporary Korea. Among the subjects under consideration are print culture, film culture, body culture, popular music, and internet culture. We will explore ways in which these cultures have evolved across the historical time span of the twentieth-century in the contexts of colonial, postcolonial/postwar, and globalizing Korea. From a transnational perspective, this course also considers these forms of culture in the broader East Asian and global contexts. Finally, we will examine theories of media and popular culture in Western societies, not only to help us theorize respective developments in Korea and East Asia, but also to consider the limits of Western theory. 
*請注意，本課程整學期必須親自至道藩樓218教室上課，韓國老師線上授課。
*This is a hybrid course. You must physically attend classes in room 218, Daofan Building all semester, but the Korean teacher will be instructing online.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備基礎語言能力 Basic language skills
  * B. 具備人文素養及知識 Humanity literacy & science
  * C. 具備卓越之專業實務能力 Practical ability
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Media, Culture, Korean Society serves to offer an advanced introduction to mass media and popular culture in the turbulent 20th century history of Korea. It will be of interest to those who are interested in not only media studies/industry and popular culture in Korean society, but also Korean history and sociology (or even East Asian culture and history). The course will be designed to meet the needs of students with no prior knowledge of Korea or the Korean-language.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Week 1 (9/3): Introduction to Course
Week 2 (9/10): Understanding Media and Popular Culture in 20th Century Korea Robinson, Michael. “Introduction: Korea’s Turbulent Twentieth Century.” In Korea’s Twentieth Century Odyssey: A Short History, 1-7. Honolulu: University of Hawai‘i Press, 2007.
Week 3 (9/17): Print/Broadcasting Culture Robinson, Michael. “Broadcasting, Cultural Hegemony, and Colonial Modernity in Korea, 1924- 1945.” In Colonial Modernity in Korea, eds. Gi-wook Shin and Michael Robinson, 52-69. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1999.
Week 4 (9/24): The Body and Performance Park, Sang Mi. “The Making of a Cultural Icon for the Japanese Empire: Choe Seung-hui’s U.S. Dance Tours and New Asian Culture: in the 1930s and 1940s.” positions: east asian cultures critique 14, no. 3 (2006): 597-632.
Week 5 (10/1): Postwar Korea and the Culture of Sound Pil Ho Kim & Hyunjoon Shin. “The Birth of ‘Rok’: Cultural Imperialism, Nationalism, and the Glocalization of Rock Music in South Korea, 1964-1975.” positions: east asia cultures critique 18, no. 1 (Spring 2010): 199-230.
Week 6 (10/8): NO CLASS_Chuseok: National Holiday
Week 7 (10/15): The Cultural Politics of Fashion Jin-kyung Park and Panawan Thanommongkol, “Shock of Daughters: Fashion, Unisex Style, and Gender Politics in South Korean Media (1970s-1980s),” Acta Koreana 23, no. 2 (December 2020): 79-102.
Week 8 (10/22): Midterm Examination
Week 9 (10/29): Globalization and Korean IT Industry Jin, Dal Yong. “Reinterpretation of Cultural Imperialism: Emerging Domestic Market vs. Continuing U.S. Dominance.” Media, Culture, and Society 29, no. 5 (2007): 753-771.
Week 10 (11/5): Cultural Policy and The Korean Wave Shim, Doobo. “Hybridity and the Rise of Korean Popular Culture in Asia.” Media, Culture & Society 28, no. 1 (2006): 25-44.
Week 11 (11/12): K-Pop Kyung Hyun Kim. “BTS and the World Music Industry.” In The Soft Power of the Korean Wave: Parasite, BTS and Drama edited by Youna Kim, pp. 107-117 (New York: Routledge, 2022).
Week 12 (11/19): Korean Film and Drama I Donghoon Kim. “Producers of Parasite and the Question of Film Authorship: Producing a Global Author, Authoring a Global Production.” In The Soft Power of the Korean Wave: Parasite, BTS and Drama edited by Youna Kim, pp. 41-53 (New York: Routledge, 2022).
Week 13 (11/26): Korean Film and Drama II Lisa Y. M. Leung. “Mediating Asian Modernities: The Lessons of Korean Dramas.” In The Soft Power of the Korean Wave: Parasite, BTS and Drama edited by Youna Kim, pp. 184-195 (New York: Routledge, 2022). 
Week 14 (12/3): Mobile Media and Webtoon Jin, Dal Yong. "Snack Culture's Dream of Big Screen Culture: Korean Webtoon's Transmedia Storytelling." International Journal of Communication 13 (2019): 2094-2115.
Week 15 (12/10): Final Course Review & Essay Submission - 1 page, typed essay reflecting on lecture themes and materials. Think over what you have learned through the class and how it has changed your views on Korean society
Week 16: Final Examination Date (TBA): Good Luck!
####  其他： Others: Mid-term Exam (30%), Essay (10%), Final Exam (60%) 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.