國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：進階德文聽力會話 
#####  Course Name: Advanced German Listening and Conversation
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：509032001 Course No.509032001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：歐文德三 Course Department:European Languages and Cultures/B/3 
  * 授課老師：黃逸龍 Instructor: HUANG I-LON 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一78 Session: mon16-18
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course aims to extend the knowledge of German at an advanced level. Guided by a native speaker, students will gain firsthand experience in communicating in the German language, as well as, deepen insight into the German culture. Students will practice content-orientated dialogues for general communication alone, with study partners or groups, and present them in class. Students will improve their ability to talk about general topics, and practice exchanging information in standard German. NCCU encourages students to gain self-learning experiences. 
Students may use additional materials, e.g., visiting the NCCU e-moodle platform, DW Deutsche Welle online learning courses, etc. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備語言實務應用能力 Abilities to applicate the language
  * B. 具備基本語言能力 Basic abilities of language
  * C. 具備語言教學基本知能 Basic competence of language teaching
  * D. 具備國際交流基本知能 Abilities of global mobility
  * E. 具備專業語文研究能力 Abilities of professional research in language
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The goal of this course is to enable students to communicate successfully in more difficult German on an advanced level (i.e. Common European Framework of Reference for Languages, level B1), and to learn more about cultural differences. The semantics and the pronunciation of more detailed standard German vocabulary will be taught to improve the students’ ability to build German sentences in a variety of contexts, regarding specific topics. 
Occasional homework assignments, including previewing the lesson and revising their assignments, will be required. Learning advanced German conversation and listening in this course requires also the ability to study outside of class hours, and to work in groups or with study partners. With each chapter a test, mostly in form of a free-spoken dialogue with study partners/groups, or short written tests will be given. Each student’s absentee hours must be under 25% of the total scheduled classroom hours; otherwise, the student’s results will not be accepted. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀* Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業* Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1 |  |  Introduction to the course, introduction of the textbook/ chapter 6 (“Berufsbilder”) |  Homework: Preparing Modul 1 |  2 |  4  
2 |  |  Chapter 6 (parts of Modul 1, Modul 2) |  Homework: Reading (Vocabulary of Modul 4) |  2 |  4  
3 |  |  Chapter 6, Modul 4 |  Homework: a project in sets of two (“introduction of a profession”) |  2 |  4  
4 |  |  grading a project; Chapter 7, “Für immer und ewig,” Modul 1 |  Homework: Vocabulary, preparing Modul 2 |  2 |  4  
5 |  |  Chapter 7 (parts of Modul 2) |  Homework: preparing a project: different forms of lifestyle |  2 |  4  
6 |  |  Chapter 7 (grading the project) |  Homework: Preparing Chapter 8, Modul 1 |  2 |  4  
7 |  |  Chapter 8, “Kaufen, kaufen, kaufen”, Modul 1 |  Homework: a project (introduction of a merchandise) |  2 |  4  
8 |  |  Chapter 8, Modul 2 |  Preparing the midterm exam |  2 |  4  
9 |  |  Oral midterm exam in pairs (about chapter 6-8) |  Homework: Reading (Vocabulary of Modul 3 |  2 |  4  
10 |  |  Chapter 8, Modul 3 (grading the project) |  Homework: Reading (Vocabulary of Modul 1) |  2 |  4  
11 |  |  Chapter 9, “Endlich Urlaub”, Modul 1 |  Homework: preparing Modul 2 |  2 |  4  
12 |  |  Chapter 9, parts of Modul 1, 2 |  Homework: preparing Modul 3 |  2 |  4  
13 |  |  Chapter 9, Modul 3 |  Homework: project (a tour guide’s special travel in Taiwan) |  2 |  4  
14 |  |  (grading the project) Chapter 10, “Natürlich Natur!”, Modul 1 |  Homework: preparing Modul 2 |  2 |  4  
15 |  |  Chapter 10, Modul 2 |  Homework: preparing Modul 4 |  2 |  4  
16 |  |  Chapter 10, Modul 4 |  Homework matching the class activities |  2 |  4  
17 |  |  (grading the project) Chapter 10, “Wildtiere in Berlin” |  Preparing the final examination |  2 |  4  
18 |  |  Oral final examination: group presentation |  |  2 |  4  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.