國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：德國文學概論 
#####  Course Name: German Literature
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：509041001 Course No.509041001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_2.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：歐文德三 Course Department:European Languages and Cultures/B/3 
  * 授課老師：蔡莫妮 Instructor: LEIPELT-TSAI MONIKA 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四78 Session: thu16-18


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is entirely taught in the German language by a native speaker. Students will get to know classical German authors as well as some of their most important literary works.* Some of the commonly used terms in German literature studies will be introduced. We will chronologically read and discuss a lot of exemplary German literature of many epochs in this course.
1) The planned content of this course (see the program below) needs to be carefully prepared by every student. Firstly, students have to work and find the vocabulary by themselves to be able to understand and discuss the different German literary texts. Therefore, it is necessary that every student prepares the announced program before every class by reading the assigned German literary text(s) in advance. (Students should write down difficult words and phrases, and/or possible questions to ask in the next session. This is always the assigned homework for any student in this course.)
  
2) It is expected that students write their own protocol of each class session that later can be used as a preparation for the important final written examination.
3) Following the first two sessions, students will make a presentation at the beginning of every class (each time a different topic by a different student; usually in pairs), introducing thereby one specific German language author, his/her literary work(s) and time.
After the oral presentation by one or more student(s), each session will consist of:
Q & A for the student presenter(s),
reading content description and original German language excerpts with the teacher,
conclusion/opening up of new questions.
Weekly mandatory homework: assigned readings (from the work sheets on the e-moodle learning platform) as preparation for the next session. NCCU encourages students to self learning.
*This course will continue in the second semester with other literary topics and leads to examples of contemporary German language literature.
  

###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備基本語言能力 Basic abilities of language
  * B. 具備國際交流基本知能 Abilities of global mobility
  * C. 具備專業語文研究能力 Abilities of professional research in language
  * D. 具備語言教學基本知能 Basic competence of language teaching
  * E. 具備語言實務應用能力 Abilities to applicate the language


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Through this course, students will have opportunities to get to know German language literature and cultures at a college level first hand. The goal of this course is to exemplarily introduce the development and transformation of German language literature, including some of the most important German language authors and their works. At the same time, using the German language on a more advanced level, the students will get used to read and discuss selected German literary texts and excerpts from different literary trends and epochs of the so-called “history of literature”in this course. In this way, they will start to get a first overview of different texts by influential male and female German language literary authors. Taking part in this course will mainly strengthen students’ reading skills, as well as their listening, conversational and writing skills in German language. Students are also expected to obtain at least the level of B1 according to the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR).
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  Introduction, Old High German texts |  Introduction to the course, the textbook, material, and the list;  _Hildebrandslied_ |  Reading excerpts; homework (inter alia from e-moodle) |  2 |  4  
2 |  Middle High German texts |  _Nibelungenlied_ ; Walther von der Vogelweide |  Reading excerpts; homework (inter alia from e-moodle) |  2 |  4  
3 |  Early Modern High German texts |  _Till Eulenspiegel_ ; Mastersinger Hans Sachs |  Students’ oral presentations, reading excerpts, discussion; homework (inter alia from e-moodle) |  2 |  4  
4 |  Renaissance; Baroque |  Martin Luther; Hans Jakob Christoffel von Grimmelshausen |  Students’ oral presentations, reading excerpts, discussion; homework (inter alia from e-moodle) |  2 |  4  
5 |  Baroque |  Lyrical poetry (Martin Opitz, Andreas Gryphius, et cetera) |  Students’ oral presentations, reading excerpts, discussion; homework (inter alia from e-moodle) |  2 |  4  
6 |  (Sentimental) Enlightenment |  Gotthold Ephraim Lessing; Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock |  Students’ oral presentations, reading excerpts, discussion; homework (inter alia from e-moodle) |  2 |  4  
7 |  Storm and Stress |  Jakob Michael Reinhold Lenz; the early Johann Wolfgang Goethe  |  Students’ oral presentations, reading excerpts, discussion; homework (inter alia from e-moodle) |  2 |  4  
8 |  |  midterm week |  a German language literary film adaptation |  2 |  1  
9 | Storm and Stress; early Weimar Classicism |  Johann Gottfried Herder; the early Friedrich Schiller; Johann Wolfgang von Goethe |  Students’ oral presentations, reading excerpts,discussion; homework (inter alia from e-moodle) |  2 |  4  
10 |  Weimar Classicism |  The late Friedrich von Schiller; Lyrical poetry (by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Friedrich von Schiller) |  Students’ oral presentations, reading excerpts,discussion; homework (inter alia from e-moodle) |  2 |  4  
11 | Classicism; Romanticism |  The late Goethe; Karoline von Günde(r)rode & other female authors |  Students’ oral presentations, reading excerpts, discussion; homework (inter alia from e-moodle) |  2 |  4  
12 |  Early Romanticism |  Jakob Grimm and Wilhelm Grimm; Johann Peter Hebel |  Students’ oral presentations, reading excerpts, discussion; homework (inter alia from e-moodle) |  2 |  4  
13 |  Romanticism |  Adelbert von Chamisso; E.T.A. Hoffmann |  Students’ oral presentations, reading excerpts, discussion; homework (inter alia from e-moodle) |  2 |  4  
14 |  Romanticism |  Joseph von Eichendorff; Friedrich Hölderlin |  Students’ oral presentations, reading excerpts, discussion; homework (inter alia from e-moodle) |  2 |  4  
15 |  Romanticism? |  Heinrich von Kleist; Jean Paul  |  Students’ oral presentations, reading excerpts, discussion  |  2 |  4  
16 |  |  Final examination |  written examination |  2 |  ---  
|  |  |  |  |   
|  |  |  |  |   
每周課堂教學時數： 2小時
每周預習/複習時數： 4 小時
* This curriculum is conditional, depending on each particular classes’ level. For example, if the class level is less advanced than expected, I might change or leave out some particles of the originally planned curriculum. Or, if the class is more advanced, I might add some extensive teaching material.
* 依照各個參與班級程度，本課程會視情況調整教學內容。例如，如果班級程度不如預期優等，我可能會更改或刪減部分原訂課程內容。抑或是，如果班級程度特別優等，我則可能會增加一些延伸的上課內容。
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_0%_
####  講述 Lecture
_0%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_100%_
####  其他： Others: (See 下方課程要求/評分標準Evaluation Criteria below) 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
NCCU encourages students to gain self-learning experiences.
The teaching approach will be ca. 60 % lecture by the teacher, and ca. 40% students' activity, including their discussions and presentations in class. 
Evaluation criteria:  
Oral contribution in German language (including answering questions, actively taking part, and each student's two presentations with PPT about a designated specific German language writer and his/her epoch and works: 60% .
In case a student is not on time delivering the assigned handout of the PPT two days before the presentation, points will deducted accordingly (minimum: a deduction of 5 points).  
Final written examination in German language: 40%.
Mobile phones and dictionaries are forbidden in the final written examination. 
Each student’s absentee hours must be under 25% of the total scheduled classroom hours; otherwise the student’s results of their presentations cannot be accepted. In conclusion, this will mean that without 75% attendance of the course hours, students' final examination result will not be sufficient to succeed in this course. 
Students are not allowed to read from mobile phones while presenting projects that are graded (to read from a tablet or from paper is possible). However, in class, working with learning partners, they can use mobile phones as tools for translation.
同學在課堂上進行上台報告時不得使用手機 (用平板或紙張讀稿是可以的)。然而，與學習夥伴一起相關活動時，則可以使用手機作為翻譯工具。
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
The acquisition of an introduction textbook (e.g., the small textbook _Deutsche Literaturgeschichte_ by Heinrich Haerkötter) is recommended. The most important additional materials are given: To prepare each week for the upcoming session, early on all students have to download the assigned files on the e-moodle learning platform by themselves.
References:
- Haerkötter, Heinrich _.__Deutsche Literaturgeschichte_.
- Gigl, Claus J. _Deutsche Literaturgeschichte_. Stark Verlag, Freising, 2011.
- Söllinger, Peter et al. _Literatur unterrichten_. 2. Aufl., Literas, Wien, 1993.
- Schappert, Christoph, Juergen Kost. _Deutsche Literatur._ Oldenbourg Schulbuchverlag, Muenchen, 2012.
- Wucherpfennig, Wolf. _Deutsche Literaturgeschichte. Von den Anfängen bis zur Gegenwart_. Klett Verlag, Stuttgart, 2010.
including many other literary books, and online resources such as the "Gutenberg Projekt," etc.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Link for original literary texts in German language, e.g., the "Projekt Gutenberg.de" 
  <https://www.projekt-gutenberg.org/>; 
Link for listening texts in German language, e.g., <https://www.deutschelyrik.de/home.html> ;

The link to the Moodle course is  https://moodle45.nccu.edu.tw/course/view.php?id=9954
同學需要自行從Moodle平台下載課堂相關額外學習教材。

```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
【研究室位置】研究大樓8樓810室
Office Hours：週二下午請事先寄 e-mail 預約
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
No TA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
