國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：初級越語語法
#####  Course Name: Basic Vietnamese Grammar
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：510026001 Course No.510026001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：東南越一 Course Department:Southeast Asian Languages and Cultures/B/1 
  * 授課老師：黎氏仁 Instructor: LE THI-NHAM 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三34 Session: wed10-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course for beginners aims to provide students with Vietnamese basic phonetics and the practically grammatical points. Concurrently with the courses of _Basic Vietnamese_ and _Basic Vietnamese Conversation_ , where simple conversations, reading passages, and basic grammar rules are taught in specific topics but unsystematic, it leads to confusing in many cases; therefore, this course with endeavors to introduce how Vietnamese language works systematically through the various exercises and drills.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備基本語言及應用能力 To possess basic language proficiency and application skills
  * B. 具備東南亞研究基礎知識 To obtain fundamental knowledge in Southeast Asian studies
  * C. 具備人文素養及思辨能力To possess humanistic literacy and critical thinking skills
  * D. 具備國際宏觀視野 To have an international perspective
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The goals of this course are to master the phonetic system of Vietnamese, including alphabet, syllable structure and intonation. It aims to provide learners understand the inherent characteristics of Vietnamese words (word classes, original and word-formation, phrases). Finally, it help to build the constituents of Vietnamese sentences (simple and compound sentences).
Each lesson has drills and exercises to improve four skills of Vietnamese language. Upon the completion of elementary course, students will establish the foundation of Vietnamese as follow:
_發音_ _Pronunciation:_
  * Understand in-depth the phonetic system and its syllable structure.
  * Be able to pronounce Vietnamese words correctly.
_詞彙_ _Vocabulary:_
  * Gain basic words in daily conversations: mình, nhau, ai, gì, những/ các, được/ bị …
_文法_ _Grammar:_
  * Sentence patterns: Vì…nên…, Do…mà…,…vừa…vừa…,…có…mới…, không/chưa/ chẳng + verbs/ adjectives…
_聽力_ _Listening:_
  * Be able to listen and comprehend basic conversations in familiar topics within the limits of vocabulary and grammar acquired in this course.
_口說_ _Speaking:_
  * Be able to answer simple questions and express oneself in familiar situations.
_閱讀_ _Reading:_
  * Be able to read and understand short passages on familiar daily topics written in basic vocabulary.
_寫作_ _Writing:_
  * Be able to write dictations, simple sentences and short passages in familiar topics within the limit of basic vocabulary and grammar.
_越語檢定標準_ _Vietnamese language proficiency level:_
  * Successful students will be able to acquire A1 (Pre-elementary level)
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Contents and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student Workload Expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課當 講授 In-class Hours |  課程 前後 Outside -of-class Hours  
1 |  The general introduction of modern Vietnamese | 
  * Course introduction
  * Vietnam history and culture in brief
  * History of writing in Vietnam
  * Vietnamese dialect
  * Type of Vietnamese vocabulary
  * Vietnamese phonetics in brief
  * Vietnamese alphabet system
  * Common spoken language
| 
  * Homework：
  1. Come up with 5 things you would like to learn how to say in Vietnamese
  2. Practice Vietnamese alphabet system
|  2 |  3  
2 |  The structure of Vietnamese syllable | 
  * Discussion on homework
  * The structure of Vietnamese syllable
  1. 頭音Onset
  2. 介音 Glide
  3. 核心音 Nuclei vowel
  4. 尾音 Coda
  5. 聲調Tone
| 
  * In- class quiz: Alphabet system
  * Homework: Listen to the recording and review the pronunciation of the lesson.
|  2 |  3  
3 |  The structure of Vietnamese syllable | 
  * Discussion on homework
  * The special rules between words and pronunciations
  * Practice listening
  * Common spoken language
| 
  * In- class quiz: alphabet system
  * Homework: Listen to the recording and review the pronunciation of the lesson.
|  2 |  3  
4 |  The Combination of the Vowel and Coda | 
  * 頭音與單元音的結合 The combinations of initial consonant and monophthong
  * 前元音與尾音的結合The combination of the front nucleus vowel with coda
  * 央元音與尾音的結合The combination of the central nucleus vowel with coda 
  * 後元音與尾音的結合The combination of the back nucleus vowel with coda
  * 音頭與韻母的結合The combination of onset with rhyme 
| 
  * In- class quiz: Vietnamese tones
  * Homework：
  1. Listen to pronunciation record and practice pronunciations
  2. Practice reading the sentences. 
  3. Correct the error in the following syllable and explain the reasons
|  2 |  3  
5 |  The Combination of the Vowel and Coda | 
  * Distinguish between tones
  * 頭音與韻母的結合 The combination of onset with rhyme
  * Practice listening
  * Common spoken language
| 
  * In- class quiz: Vietnamese tones
  * Homework：Correct the error in the following syllable and explain the reasons
|  2 |  3  
6 |  The Combination of the Diphthong and Coda | 
  * 雙元音表與拼音Diphthongs and pronunciations
  * 頭音與雙元音的結合The combinations of initial consonant with diphthong
  * 三元音表與拼音Three vowel and pronunciation
  * 頭音與三元音的結合 The combinations of initial consonant with three vowel
| 
  * In- class quiz: 元音與尾音的結合The combination of the vowel with coda
  * In-class activity:Correct the errors in the following syllable and explain the reasons
|  2 |  3  
7 |  The Combination of the Diphthong and Coda | 
  * Distinguish between tones
  * 音頭與韻母的結合The combination of onset with rhyme
  * Practice listening
  * Common spoken language
| 
  * Homework：
  1. Listen to the a record and practice pronunciations
  2. Practice reading the sentences, and pay attention to the tones.
|  2 |  3  
8 |  Pronunciation Practice | 
  * 容易困惑的元音Confused vowel
  * 容易困惑的輔音Confused consonants
  * 容易困惑的韻母 Confused rhymes
  * 結合不同聲調A combination of different tones
  * 腔調 Intonation
  * 大寫規則 Regulation of capital
  * 聽寫規則 Regulation of dictation
  * Watch a film with regard to Vietnam culture
  * Regulation of word-formation: compounding and affixation
  * Vietnamese typing
  * Practice Listening
  * Common spoken language
| 
  * In- class quiz: Pronunciation
  * In-class activity: Explain the dictation rules for the following letters: k-c-q; gh-g; ng-ngh
  * Homework：
  1. Listen to the a record and practice pronunciations
  2. Write dictation
  3. Read the following small poems, please pay attention to the tone and rhythm
|  2 |  3  
9 |  Midterm exam |  Pronunciations |  2 |  3  
10 |  Vietnamese word-formation | 
  * The classification of Vietnamese words: Pure words, Sino-Vietnamese, Indo-European-origin words, mixed words.
  * Nouns and noun phrases
  * Adjectives and adjective phrases
  * Reduplicative words
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
11 |  Vietnamese word-formation | 
  * Verbs and verb phrases
  * Modal verbs:
  1. Nên, cần, phải, có thể, không thể …
  2. Dám, định, mong …
  3. Bị, được, chịu …
  4. Bắt đầu, tiếp tục, thôi …
  * Full verbs:
  1. Activities: ăn, làm, đi, chạy …
  2. Feeling verbs: yêu, ghét, nhớ, tôn trọng
  3. Verbs denoting existence: có, còn, hết, mất ….
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
12 |  Vietnamese Pronouns | 
  * Personal pronouns: tao, mày, nó, hắn, họ, chúng ta, mình …
  * Time pronouns: bấy giờ, hồi nay, hồi xưa, trước kia …
  * Quantifying pronouns: tất cả, cả, toàn bộ, toàn thể …
  * Demonstrative pronouns: đây, đó, kia, kìa …
  * Interrogative pronouns: ai, gì, đâu, thế nào, sao, bao giờ …
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
13 |  Markers | 
  * Substantial markers: những, mỗi, các, từng…
  * Predicative markers: 
  1. Denoting the similarity: cũng, đều
  2. Denoting the continuity: vẫn, cứ, còn, vẫn cứ, vẫn còn.
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
14 |  Markers | 
  * Predicative markers: 
  1. Denoting on going activity: Lại, nữa.
  2. Denoting the results: Mất, được, ra.
  3. Expressing the degree: Rất, hơi, khá.
  4. Negative meaning: có, không, chẳng …
  5. Demand expressing: hãy, đừng, chớ
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
15 |  Connectives (Prepositions) | 
  * Common prepositions: của, bằng, vì, do, bởi, tại
  * For the purposes of actions: để
  * For the Positions: trong, ngoài, trên, dưới
  * Used for comparisons: như
  * Ways of expression: với
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
16 |  Connectives (Conjunctions used to connect two words) | 
  * Shows directions and scales of an activity: về
  * Denotes the purposes: cho
  * Used for confirmation: mà
  * Usages ofvới, cùng với, như, bằng, cũng như
  * Used to denote the continuation in time of activities: rồi
|  Exercises and drills |  2 |  3  
####  其他： Others: In-class quiz 
### Students are responsible for memorizing vocabulary, reviewing grammar, and reading materials before class in order to reserve valuable in-class time for oral practice. All assignments are sent to instructor's email prior to the deadlines. The final grades are determined by 3 parts as following:
  1. ### Attendance and participation (discussion, in-class assignments, meeting deadlines): 40 %
  2. ### Weekly Homework: 30 %
  3. ### Midterm exam (pronunciation): 30 % 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
### 研究大樓 #702