國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：印尼文化與社會
#####  Course Name: Indonesian Culture and Society
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：510069001 Course No.510069001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_2.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_50_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：東南印一 Course Department:Southeast Asian Languages and Cultures/B/1 
  * 授課老師：拜瓦妮 Instructor: Wardhani Baiq Lekar Sinayang Wahyu 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二34 Session: tue10-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
**Course Description**
In general, this course aims to introduce basic knowledge of Indonesian culture and society. As an introduction, the course is intended for students at the beginner-level with less previous knowledge on Indonesian culture and society. The teaching materials cover a range of basic knowledge about attributes of Indonesian culture.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備基本語言及應用能力 To possess basic language proficiency and application skills
  * B. 具備東南亞研究基礎知識 To obtain fundamental knowledge in Southeast Asian studies
  * C. 具備人文素養及思辨能力To possess humanistic literacy and critical thinking skills
  * D. 具備國際宏觀視野 To have an international perspective


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
**Goals & Learning Outcomes**
By the end of the course, students are expected to;
1. have a basic knowledge on Indonesian culture
2. be able to understand and ready for a further advance study about Indonesia.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week 1: Introduction**
- About the course; description, aims, and approach of the course
- Class rules and management of class activities
- Common misconceptions about Indonesia
**Week 2:** Indonesia at a glance (Indonesia Selayang Pandang)
**Week 3:** Big Country with a Rich Culture (Negara Besar dengan Kekayaan Budaya)
**Week 4:** Nation with Diversity (Bangsa dengan Keberagaman)
**Week 5:** Being an Indonesian (Menjadi Indonesia) part A
**Week 6:** Being an Indonesian (Menjadi Indonesia) part B
**Week 7:** Indonesian Language (Bahasa Indonesia) part A
**Week 8: Midterm Exam**
**Week 9:** Indonesian Language (Bahasa Indonesia) part B
**Week 10:** Thought and Religion (Pemikiran dan Agama)
**Week 11:** Indonesian Cuisine & Dance (Makanan & Tarian Indonesia)
**Week 12:** Literature and Art (Sastra dan Kesenian)
**Week 13:** Gender, Courtship, and Marriage (Jender, Pertunangan, dan Perkawinan)
**Week 14:** Festival and Leisure Activities (Festival dan Kegiatan-Kegiatan Santai/Hiburan)
**Week 15:** Architecture and Housing (Arsitektur dan Perumahan)
**Week 16: Final Exam**
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_15%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Teaching Approach**
Lecture: 30 %
Discussion: 30 %
Group Activity: 25 %
Others：15 %
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Textbook & References**
1. Forshee, Jill. 2006. Culture and Customs of Indonesia. Greenwood Press.
2. Hellwiq, Tineke & Taglliacozzo, Eric. 2009. The Indonesia Reader: History, Culture, Politics. Duke University Press.
3. Lamaoureux, Florence. 2003. Indonesia. A Global Studies Handbook. ABC-CLIO.
4. Hefner, Robert W. (ed.). 2018. Routledge Handbook of Contemporary Indonesia. Taylor & Francis.
5. Hannigan, Tim. 2015. A Brief History of Indonesia. Tuttle Publishing.
6. Philips, Douglas A. 2005. Indonesia Modern World Nations. Chelsea House Publishers.
7. Taylor, Jean Gelman. 2003. Indonesia. Peoples and Histories. Yale University Press.
8. Brown, Colin. 2003. A Short History of Indonesia. The Likely Nation? Allen & Unwin.
9. Cahin, Audrey & Cribb, Robert. 2004. Historical Dictionary of Indonesia. 2nd edition. The Scarecrow Press Inc. 
10. Ricklefs, M. C. 2008. A History of Modern Indonesia since c. 1200. 4th edition. Palgrave Macmillan
Notes for references: All the references are available in the pdf version which all can be copied from the lecture in the first meeting (week1)
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
請和老師預約
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
