國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：東南亞國際關係
#####  Course Name: International Relations in Southeast Asia
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：510023001 Course No.510023001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：東南越三、東南泰三、東南印三、東南越四、東南泰四、東南印四 Course Department:Southeast Asian Languages and Cultures/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：拜瓦妮 Instructor: Wardhani Baiq Lekar Sinayang Wahyu 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二56 Session: tue14-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
International Relations in Southeast Asia
(Required course for Year III,VI; Tuesday 14:10-16:00)
Course Description
This course generally offers a wider introduction of contemporary international relations in Southeast Asia. It begins by highlighting reasons for exploring the dynamics of international relations in the region and the importance these have contributed to the contemporary global politics. Earlier historical developments are revisited and traced as part of efforts in understanding contemporary development. The Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) as the main regional organization within the region is also explored. Meanwhile, other important issues that shape the dynamics of international relations in Southeast Asia are also looked at. These issues range from economic development strategies, security and conflict resolution mechanisms, environmental degradation, migration, and human rights and human security issues.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 具備基本語言及應用能力 To possess basic language proficiency and application skills
  * B. 具備東南亞研究基礎知識 To obtain fundamental knowledge in Southeast Asian studies
  * C. 具備人文素養及思辨能力To possess humanistic literacy and critical thinking skills
  * D. 具備國際宏觀視野 To have an international perspective
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
General Objectives
After completing this course, students are expected to generally know the contemporary dynamics of international relations in Southeast Asia, able to identify various important issues shaping the dynamics of international relations in Southeast Asia, and understand various factors that have contributed to the contemporary dynamics of regional interactions in Southeast Asia.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Week 1. Introduction
Course content & class rules
Required Readings:
Course syllabus
Week 2. Southeast Asia at a glance
What and why of Southeast Asia?
Required Readings:
01 - Weatherbee, Donald E. (2009) International Relations in Southeast Asia. The Struggle for Autonomy, 2nd ed., Rowman & Littlefield Publishers [Chapter 1].
02 - Ba, Alice D., Beeson, Mark (2017) "The Continuing Evolution of Southeast Asia" in Ba, Alice D., Beeson, Mark (eds.), Contemporary Southeast Asia, The Politics of Change, Contestation, and Adaptation, 3rd ed., Red Glob Press [Chapter 1].
03 - Noble, Allen G (1996) "The Physical Environment" in Dutt, Ashok K. (ed.), Southeast Asia: A Ten Nation Region, Kluwer Academic Publishers [Chapter 2].
04 - Andaya, Barbara Watson & Andaya, Leonard Y. (2015) A History of Early Modern Southeast Asia, 1400-1800, Cambridge University Press [Chapter 1].
Week 3. The early history of Southeast Asia
How has the early history of Southeast Asia contributed to its contemporary situation?
Required Readings:
01 - Cribb, Robert (2017) "Southeast Asia: Historical Context" in Ba, Alice D., Beeson, Mark (eds.), Contemporary Southeast Asia, The Politics of Change, Contestation, and Adaptation, 3rd ed., Red Glob Press [Chapter 2].
02 - Hall, Kenneth R. (2011) A History of Early Southeast Asia, Rowman & Littlefield.
03 - Andaya, Barbara Watson & Andaya, Leonard Y. (2015) A History of Early Modern Southeast Asia, 1400-1800, Cambridge University Press [Chapter 2 & 3].
Week 4. Western colonialism in Southeast Asia
What are the legacies of Western colonialism in Southeast Asia?
To what extent these legacies have shaped contemporary Southeast Asia?
Required Readings:
01 - Tarling, Nicholas (2001) Imperialism in Southeast Asia, Routledge.
02 - Booth, Anne E. (2007) Colonial Legacies, University of Hawai'i Press.
03 - Andaya, Barbara Watson & Andaya, Leonard Y. (2015) A History of Early Modern Southeast Asia, 1400-1800, Cambridge University Press [Chapter 4 - 7].
Week 5 & 6. Southeast Asia during the Cold War
Why and how was Southeast Asia becoming a theatre of Cold War?
Required Readings:
01 - Weatherbee, Donald E. (2009) International Relations in Southeast Asia. The Struggle for Autonomy, 2nd ed., Rowman & Littlefield Publishers [Chapter 3].
02 - Ang, Chen Guan (2018) Southeast Asia's Cold War, An Interpretative History, University of Hawai'i Press.
03 - Lau, Albert (ed.) (2012), Southeast Asia and the Cold War, Routledge.
Week 7. External international actors in Southeast Asia
Who and what are the reasons for the presence of external international actors in Southeast Asia?
Required Readings:
01 - Weatherbee, Donald E. (2009) International Relations in Southeast Asia. The Struggle for Autonomy, 2nd ed., Rowman & Littlefield Publishers [Chapter 2].
02 - Ba, Alice D., Kuik, Cheng-Chwee (2017) "Southeast Asia and China: Engagement and Constrainment" in Ba, Alice D., Beeson, Mark (eds.), Contemporary Southeast Asia, The Politics of Change, Contestation, and Adaptation, 3rd ed., Red Glob Press [Chapter 14].
03 - Yoshimatsu, Hidetaka (2017) "Japan and Southeast Asia" in Ba, Alice D., Beeson, Mark (eds.), Contemporary Southeast Asia, The Politics of Change, Contestation, and Adaptation, 3rd ed., Red Glob Press [Chapter 15].
04 - Capie, David (2017) "The United States and Southeast Asia" in Ba, Alice D., Beeson, Mark (eds.), Contemporary Southeast Asia, The Politics of Change, Contestation, and Adaptation, 3rd ed., Red Glob Press [Chapter 16].
Week 8. Midterm Exam
Week 9 & 10. ASEAN and the changing geopolitics of Southeast Asia
Why and to what extent ASEAN is important within the context of Southeast Asia?
Required Readings:
01 - Weatherbee, Donald E. (2009) International Relations in Southeast Asia. The Struggle for Autonomy, 2nd ed., Rowman & Littlefield Publishers [Chapter 4].
02 - Davies, Mathew (2017) "Regionalism and Southeast Asia" in Ba, Alice D., Beeson, Mark (eds.), Contemporary Southeast Asia, The Politics of Change, Contestation, and Adaptation, 3rd ed., Red Glob Press [Chapter 9].
03 - Acharya, Amitav (2009) Constructing Security Community in Southeast Asia, 2nd ed., Routledge.
04 - Acharya, Amitav (2012) The Making of Southeast Asia, ISEAS.
05 - Beeson, Mark & Gerrad, Kelly (2015) "ASEAN, regionalism and democracy" in Case, William (ed.), Routledge Handbook of Southeast Asian Democratization, Routledge [Chapter 4].
06 - ASEAN, ASEAN Economic Community Blueprint.
07 - ASEAN, ASEAN Political-Community Blueprint.
08 - ASEAN, ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community Blue Print.
09 - ASEAN, ASEAN Economic Community Blueprint-2025.
10 - ASEAN, ASEAN Political-Community Blueprint-2025.
11 - ASEAN, ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community Blueprint-2025.
12 - ASEAN, ASEAN 2025: Forging Ahead Together.
Week 11. Economic development strategies of Southeast Asian states
What are the current economic development of Southeast Asian countries?
What economic development strategies these countries have adopted?
Required Readings:
01 - Dutt, Ashok K., Mukhopadhyay, Anupa & Humpreys, Adrian G. (1996) "National Economic Planning Since the 1980s" in Dutt, Ashok K. (ed.), Southeast Asia: A Ten Nation Region, Kluwer Academic Publishers [Chapter 6].
02 - McGregor, A., Law, L., & Miller, F. (eds.), Routledge Handbook of Southeast Asian Development, Routledge [Parts 1 - 3].
Week 12. Conflict and conflict resolution in Southeast Asia
What are the nature of conflicts and conflict resolutions mechanisms in Southeast Asia?
Required Readings:
01 - Weatherbee, Donald E. (2009) International Relations in Southeast Asia. The Struggle for Autonomy, 2nd ed., Rowman & Littlefield Publishers [Chapter 5].
02 - Collins, Allan (2000) The Security Dilemmas of Southeast Asia, ISEAS.
03 - Acharya, Amitav (2012) The Making of Southeast Asia, ISEAS.
04 - Oishi, Mikio (ed.) Contemporary Conflict in Southeast Asia, Springer.
Week 13. Human rights and human security issues in Southeast Asia
What are the challenges in dealing with human rights and human security issues?
Required Readings:
01 - Weatherbee, Donald E. (2009) International Relations in Southeast Asia. The Struggle for Autonomy, 2nd ed., Rowman & Littlefield Publishers [Chapter 8].
02 - Peou, Sorpong (2015) "Democratization and human rights in Southeast Asia" in Case, William (ed.), Routledge Handbook of Southeast Asian Democratization, Routledge [Chapter 3].
03 - Tan, Hsien-Li (2011) The ASEAN Intergovernmental Commission on Human Rights, Cambridge University Press.
04 - Nishikawa, Yukiko (2010) Human Security in Southeast Asia, Routledge.
Week 14. Transnational violence and crime in Southeast Asia
What are the challenges in dealing with violence, crime, and terrorism issues?
Required Readings:
01 - Weatherbee, Donald E. (2009) International Relations in Southeast Asia. The Struggle for Autonomy, 2nd ed., Rowman & Littlefield Publishers [Chapter 5].
02 - Vaughn, Bruce et al, eds., (2008) Terrorism in Southeast Asia, Novinka Books.
03 - Chouvy, Pierre-Arnaud, ed., (2013) An Atlas of Trafficking in Southeast Asia, I. B. Tauris.
Week 15. Environmental issues in Southeast Asia
To what extent has environment developed as an international issue in the region?
Required Readings:
01 - Weatherbee, Donald E. (2009) International Relations in Southeast Asia. The Struggle for Autonomy, 2nd ed., Rowman & Littlefield Publishers [Chapter 9].
02 - Hirsch, Philip & Warren Carol eds., (1998) The Politics of Environment in Southeast Asia, Routledge.
03 - McGregor, A., Law, L., & Miller, F. (eds.), Routledge Handbook of Southeast Asian Development, Routledge [Part 4].
Week 16. Final examination week
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.