國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：進階越語：文學
#####  Course Name: Advanced Vietnamese: Literature
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：510050001 Course No.510050001


#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_2.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：東南越三、東南越四 Course Department:Southeast Asian Languages and Cultures/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：陳氏梅仁 Instructor: Tran Thi Mai Nhan 
  * 先修科目：[ 中級越語(全學年)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([ Intermediate Vietnamese])
  * 上課時間：五34 Session: fri10-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
_Advanced Vietnamese: Literature_ is a course for students who have Intermediate Vietnamese level for Vietnamese reading comprehension skills. The course includes 14 lessons, providing students with foundational understanding of Vietnamese literature, from Folk literature to Contemporary literature through typical works of different genres. Regarding Folk literature, students practice reading and comprehension skills of works in the genre of proverbs and idioms; myths, legends, fairy tales, fables,… Regarding Modern literature, the course introduces the works of some typical writers of the Doi moi period such as: “Reed Grass” by Nguyen Minh Chau, “Salt of the Forest” by Nguyen Huy Thiep. Students will be able to develop and advance their Vietnamese reading comprehension abilities through literature.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備基本語言及應用能力 To possess basic language proficiency and application skills
  * B. 具備東南亞研究基礎知識 To obtain fundamental knowledge in Southeast Asian studies
  * C. 具備人文素養及思辨能力To possess humanistic literacy and critical thinking skills
  * D. 具備國際宏觀視野 To have an international perspective


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
**Objective:** Provide international students a foundational and advanced understanding of Vietnamese language, the relationship between literature and language, as well as the elementary knowledge of Vietnamese literature through typical works from folk literature to literature contemporary. 
The course provides students with knowledge and skills/theory and practice on the method of Reading Comprehension a complete Vietnamese text in the field of literature: method of finding keywords, main ideas, content of each paragraph in the text as well as the theme of the entire work; Analyze the diverse meanings of closely linked language groupings in order to achieve high efficiency in reading comprehension and analyzing the meaning of the text.
**Learning Outcomes:** After completing the course, students will be able to:
- Master reading and understanding Vietnamese texts, present the content and theme of the text, and apply it to reading Vietnamese literary works.
- Understand the relationship between literature and language, between Vietnamese language and Vietnamese literature and basic knowledge of Vietnamese literature through typical literary works.
-Students understand the content and meaning of literary works selected in the program; can write a presentation introducing a specific author and literary work; can use folk proverbs in communication - speaking and writing.
- Through the course, students will accumulate a rich knowledge of literature, and at the same time have access to emotional expressions of artistic texts, in order to practice and improve their reading and comprehension skills. Advanced level Vietnamese writing skills.
Through the content and meaning of literary works, students will have a deeper understanding of the country, people, history and culture of Vietnam.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Topic** |  **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 5/9 |  BÀI 1 |  TỔNG QUAN VĂN HỌC VIỆT NAM  |  1. Students prepare for the lesson by reading the textbook and consulting a dictionary for challenging terminology. 2. Review the lesson using the study guide questions in the end of the lesson 3. The lecturer teachs and asks students questions; students listen to the lectures, ask questions, and complete the requests. 4. Lecturer helps students study at home and prepare lessons for the next class.  
2 12/9 | 
###  BÀI 2
|  VĂN HỌC DÂN GIAN VIỆT NAM |  1. Students prepare for the lesson by reading the textbook and consulting a dictionary for challenging terminology. 2. Review the lesson using the study guide questions in the end of the lesson 3. The lecturer teachs and asks students questions; students listen to the lectures, ask questions, and complete the requests. 4. The lecturer helps students study at home and prepare lessons for the next class.  
3 19/9 | 
###  BÀI 3
|    
  
  

###  TỤC NGỮ, CÂU ĐỐ
|  1. Students prepare for the lesson by reading the textbook and consulting a dictionary for challenging terminology. 2. Review the lesson using the study guide questions in the end of the lesson 3. The lecturer guides students to learn the literal and figurative of idioms and proverbs. 4. The lecturer guides students to make sentences with common idioms.   
4 26/9 | 
###  BÀI 4
| 
###  CA DAO, DÂN CA
|  1. Students prepare for the lesson by reading the textbook, consulting a dictionary for challenging terminology and reviewing the lesson using the study guide questions in the end of the lesson 2.The lecturer guides students to understand the lesson and learn folk songs about family. 3. The lecturer plays folk music from the three regions for the class, helps them singing Quan họ Bắc Ninh folk songs. 4.Students memorize and grasp the meaning of the folk song: “Công cha như núi Thái Sơn”.  
5 3/10 |  BÀI 5 | 
###  TRUYỆN THẦN THOẠI: THẦN TRỤ TRỜI
|  1. Start by reading truyện THẦN TRỤ TRỜI, and use the dictionary to check up any unfamiliar words. 2. Learn the story according to the study guide questions in the textbook.. 3. Take part in class discussions under the guidance of lecturer; identify the main content and draw out the meaning of the story. 4. Practice summarizing the story and memorizing its meaning.  
7 17/10 |  BÀI 6 |  TRUYỆN TRUYỀN THUYẾT: AN DƯƠNG VƯƠNG VÀ MỴ CHÂU – TRỌNG THỦY **(Thuyết trình 1)** |  1. Students read the story AN DƯƠNG VƯƠNG VÀ MỴ CHÂU – TRỌNG THỦY before the class and use the dictionary to look up any unfamiliar words. 2. Students prepare presentations in groups (group 1) and present in class using a system of questions provided by the lecturer. 3. Take part in class discussions under the guidance of lecturer; identify the main content and draw out the meaning of the story. 4. Practice summarizing the story and memorizing its meaning.  
8 24/10 |  BÀI 7  | 
###  TRUYỆN CỔ TÍCH: 
###  TẤM CÁM
**(Thuyết trình 2)** |  1. Students read the story TẤM CÁM before the class and use the dictionary to look up any challenging words..  2. Students prepare presentations in groups (group 2) and present in class using a system of questions provided by the lecturer. 3. Take part in class discussions under the guidance of lecturer; identify the main content and draw out the meaning of the story.  
9 31/10 |  BÀI 8 |  TRUYỆN NGỤ NGÔN: THẦY BÓI XEM VOI **(Thuyết trình 3)** |  1. Students read the story THẦY BÓI XEM VOI before the class and use the dictionary to look up any challenging words.  2. Students prepare presentations in groups (group 3) and present in class using a system of questions provided by the lecturer. 3. Take part in class discussions under the guidance of lecturer; identify the main content and draw out the meaning of the story. 4. Practice summarizing the story and memorizing its meaning.  
|  XEM PHIM |  Xem một bộ phim chuyển thể từ tác phẩm văn học dân gian: “TẤM CÁM – CHUYỆN CHƯA KỂ” (Nhà sản xuất: Ngô Thanh Vân)  
10 7/11 |  BÀI 9 |  KHÁI QUÁT VĂN HỌC TRUNG ĐẠI VIỆT NAM  |  1. Listen to the lecture, answer the questions and ask questions related to the lesson. 2. Comprehend the lecture, answer to the study guide questions in the end of the lession, and prepare for the next lesson.  
BÀI 10 |  BÀI THƠ “NAM QUỐC SƠN HÀ" (LÝ THƯỜNG KIỆT) |  3. Students read NAM QUỐC SƠN HÀ before the class and use the dictionary to look up any challenging words. 4. Learn the poem's by heart (including the translation and transcription) and grasp the meaning of the poem.  
11 14/11 |  BÀI 11 |  NGUYỄN DU VÀ TÁC PHẨM TRUYỆN KIỀU  |  1. Students prepare for the lesson by reading the textbook and consulting a dictionary for challenging terminology. 2. The lecturer guides students in summarizing the key aspects of Nguyễn Du’s life and the content of TRUYỆN KIỀU.  
3. Understand the realistic and humanitarian values conveyed in the work.  
12 21/11 |  BÀI 12 |  KHÁI QUÁT VĂN HỌC HIỆN ĐẠI VIỆT NAM |  1. Students prepare for the lesson by reading the textbook. **2.** Students gain an understanding of the evolution and development of modern Vietnamese literature from the early 20th century to the present. 3. Students read CỎ LAU before the class anduse the dictionary to look up any challenging words.  
13 28/12 |  BÀI 13 |  CỎ LAU - NGUYỄN MINH CHÂU **(Thuyết trình 4)** |  1. Students prepare presentations in groups (group 4) and present in class using a system of questions provided by the lecturer. 2. Take part in class discussions under the guidance of lecturer; identify the main content and draw out the meaning of the story. 3. Practice summarizing the story and memorizing its meaning.  
14 5/12 |  BÀI 14 |  MUỐI CỦA RỪNG - NGUYỄN HUY THIỆP **(Thuyết trình 5)** |  1. Students read MUỐI CỦA RỪNG before the class and use the dictionary to look up any challenging words. 2. Listen to the lecture, answer the questions and ask questions related to the lesson. 3. Learn the story according to the study guide questions in the textbook.  
15 12/12 |  XEM PHIM |  - Xem một bộ phim chuyển thể từ tác phẩm văn học hiện đại: “TÔI THẤY HOA VÀNG TRÊN CỎ XANH” (NGUYỄN NHẬT ÁNH) - ÔN TẬP THI CUỐI KỲ  
16 19/12 |  |  THI CUỐI KỲ |  1.Trắc nghiệm (20 câu) 2.Viết cảm nghĩ   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_20%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
- Attendance score: 15%. Record attendance on a daily basis. You will not be permitted to take the final exam if you miss 4 days of class (unless you have a valid cause, such as illness or accident).
- Spirit and attitude of participating in class: 20%
- Midterm exam: 30%
- Final exam: 35%.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Tòa nghiên cứu 0631
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Nguyễn Thị Chiên 
email: 112510211@g.nccu.edu.tw
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
