國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：中級越語會話
#####  Course Name: Intermediate Vietnamese Conversation
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：510007001 Course No.510007001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_2.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：東南越二 Course Department:Southeast Asian Languages and Cultures/B/2 
  * 授課老師：陳氏梅仁 Instructor: Tran Thi Mai Nhan 
  * 先修科目：[ 初級越語會話(全學年)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([])
  * 上課時間：二56四34 Session: tue14-16,thu10-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
The course is a continuation of elementary conversational Vietnamese, which helps build students’ Vietnamese proficiency at intermediate level and deepen the understanding of Vietnam culture. This course aims to further develop the students’ conversational abilities, including enlarging vocabulary and enhancing fluency in spoken Vietnamese.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備基本語言及應用能力 To possess basic language proficiency and application skills
  * B. 具備東南亞研究基礎知識 To obtain fundamental knowledge in Southeast Asian studies
  * C. 具備人文素養及思辨能力To possess humanistic literacy and critical thinking skills
  * D. 具備國際宏觀視野 To have an international perspective


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course aims to reinforce a solid foundation in Vietnamese conversational skills by providing extended vocabulary and grammar of spoken language, the students will be able to participate in engaging conversations on a variety of topics. By the end of the semester, students will obtain as follow:
__Pronunciation:__
  * Obtain the perfect pronunciation with natural intonation in Vietnamese language.


__Vocabulary:__
  * Obtain extended vocabulary in spoken language.
  * Gain specific vocabulary with regard to Vietnamese slangs, customs and traditions.
  * Be able to distinguish homonyms.
  * Be able to use effectively synonyms and antonyms.


__Grammar:__
  * **“ nhỡ…thì làm sao”, “thế nào cũng được”, “ hễ…thì”, “ một khi đã…thì phải”…**
  * **“ nhỡ…thì làm sao”, “thế nào cũng được”, “ hễ…thì”, “ một khi đã…thì phải”…**
  * Acquire knowledge of passive voice sentences and a variety of complements with verbs.


__Listening:__
  * Be able to listen and comprehend coherent conversations; understand differences of diverse expressions in a variety of situations within the limits of vocabulary and grammar.


__Speaking:__
  * Be able to acquire speaking proficiency sufficient to communicate in different professional areas with natural intonation and fluency in Vietnamese.


__Reading:__
  * Read and identify the purpose of longer spoken texts with complexity in a various topics.


__Writing:__
  * Write articles effectively transmit cultural information in particular topics-for example, Vietnamese cuisine, Vietnamese housing architecture in countryside, traditional fashion…


__Cultural knowledge:__
  * Acquire cultural knowledge through the use of Vietnamese at intermediate level with regards to traditional activities, community....
  * Successful students will be able to reach B1 (Pre-intermediate)


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Topic** |  **Contents and Reading Assignment** |  **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **Student Workload Expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**In-class** **Hours** |  **Outside** **-of-class** **Hours**  
**1** |  **BÀI 1** **THUÊ NHÀ** |  - Course Introduction - Dialogue- **Renting** - Vocabulary - Discussion on the content of dialogue - Reading: Answer to questions based on the content of the dialogue “**Renting** ” - Explanation and definition of phrase and word. |  - Personal opinions and answer to questions with regards to “**Pros and cons of housing types** ” - Homework: 1. Vocabulary: Fill in the blanks with proper words **nhà bếp, tầng, phòng khách, tất cả, ngôi nhà, tuy…nhưng…** 2. Computer tying: Describe about your house. |  4 |  6  
**2** |  **BÀI 1** **THUÊ NHÀ** |  - Grammatical notes: **1. nhỡ… thì làm sao/ thì làm thế nào** 。 Structure: **nhỡ… thì làm sao/ thì làm thế nào** **2. tất cả** ….**đều** … Structure: **tất cả** + Subject + **đều** + V/Adjective. **3. Để làm gì**? **Để làm gì**? (For what purpose) **4. Tất nhiên/ dĩ nhiên là** **Tất nhiên/ dĩ nhiên là** “of course”. **5. Sao cũng được** Usage of word phrase**: Sao cũng được**. Vocabulary: Find the most similar words to replace the underlined word. - Culture note: **Vietnamese housing architecture in countryside** |  - Speaking Practice: work in pairs, answer to questions based on patterns. - In-class activity: Role-playing: work in pair; prepare a conversation about “**Rent an apartment** ” and make Q &A - Homework：
  1. Listening practice.
  2. Writing: Drills.
  3. **nhỡ…thì làm sao, tất nhiên, sao cũng được, tất cả…đều, để làm gì**

Make sentences based on words, phrase and sentence patterns. |  4 |  6  
**3** |  **BÀI 2** **ĐIỆN ẢNH** |  - Discussion on homework - Dialogue **At the cinema.** - Vocabulary - Discussion on the content of dialogue - Reading: Answer to questions based on the content of the dialogue. - Explanation and definition of phrase and word |  - Personal opinions and answer to questions related to “Taiwan film industry”. - Discussion on the content of dialogue. - Computer tying: **Write an introduction about Taiwan film.** |  4 |  6  
**4** |  **BÀI 2** **ĐIỆN ẢNH** |  - Grammatical notes: **1. A hay sao mà B**. **2.****quá thể** **3. Không ngờ/nào ngờ/ đâu ngờ/ngờ đâu/ai ngờ.** **4. mấy** - Vocabulary: Find the most similar words to replace the underlined word. |  - Speaking Practice: work in pairs, answer to questions based on patterns. - In-class activity: Role-playing: work in pair; prepare a conversation about “A plan to visit movie theater” and make Q &A. - Homework: Writing: Drills |  4 |  6  
**5** |  **BÀI 3** **THỊ THỰC VÀ THỦ TỤC HẢI QUAN** |  - Discussion on homework - Dialogue- **At Airport** - Vocabulary - Discussion on the content of dialogue - Reading: Answer to questions based on the content of the dialogue. - Explanation and definition of phrase and word. |  - Personal opinions and answer to questions with regards to“ **Preparation before going abroad** ”. - Homework: Write about **your experience when preparing to go abroad.** |  4 |  6  
**6** |  **BÀI 3** **THỊ THỰC VÀ THỦ TỤC HẢI QUAN** |  - Grammatical notes: **1. Ngày càng…/…càng ngày càng…/ càng… càng…** **Ngày càng…/…càng ngày càng…/ càng… càng…** (More and more). 2. The structure: **verb + thử xem**. **3. Nghe nói** **Nghe nói** , used to mitigate the speaker's responsibility. 4. Structure:**verb + có/ mỗi** - Vocabulary: Find the most similar words to replace the underlined word. - Information notes: **Customs and types of Vietnam visa** |  - Speaking Practice: work in pairs, answer to questions based on patterns. - In-class activity: Role-playing: work in pair; prepare a conversation about“ **preparation to study in Vietnam** ” and make Q &A - Homework： 1. Writing: Drills. **2. ngày càng, càng ngày càng, thử xem, verb + mỗi, verb + có** Make sentences based on words, phrase and sentence patterns. |  4 |  6  
**7** |  **BÀI 4** **QUẦN ÁO VÀ THỜI TRANG** |  - Discussion on homework - Dialogue- **At clothing store**. - Vocabulary - Discussion on the content of dialogue - Reading: Answer to questions based on the content of the dialogue. - Explanation and definition of phrase and word. |  - Personal opinions and answer to questions with regards to “**National Costumes from around the World** ” - Discuss Vietnam’s fashion trends - Computer tying: **Write your opinion about fashion.** |  4 |  6  
**8** |  **BÀI 4** **QUẦN ÁO VÀ THỜI TRANG** |  - Grammatical notes: 1. Usage of spoken phrase **thành thử**. 2. “**Thế nào cũng”; “ thế nào…cũng** ” Usage of phrase:**Thế nào cũng, thế nào…cũng** **3. Mỗi…một…** Structure: **Mỗi….một…** (Each…one...) 4. Structure: …**ơi là** …. - Cultural notes:
  1. Vietnamese traditional dress across the time.

2. Vietnamese Clothes Brands. |  - In-class activity: Role-playing: work in pair; prepare a conversation and make Q &A. - Homework： 1. Writing: Drills. **2. thành thử, thế nào cũng, thế nào…cũng, mỗi…một, …ơi là…** Make sentences based on words, phrase and sentence patterns. |  4 |  6  
9 |  **BÀI 4** **ẨM THỰC** |  - Discussion on homework - Dialogue- **Dinning** - Vocabulary - Discussion on the content of dialogue - Reading: Answer to questions based on the content of the dialogue. - Explanation and definition of phrase and word. |  - Personal opinions and answer to questions with regards to “**Family meal culture of Vietnam** ” - Write a conversation about “ **reserving a table at restaurant** ” |  4 |  6  
**10** |  **BÀI 4** **ẨM THỰC** |  - Discussion on homework - Grammatical notes:
  1. **Nào…ấy/nấy**

Structure: **Nào…ấy/nấy**
  1. …. **nào cũng được** 。

Structure: …**nào cũng được**.
  1. **Mà**

Word **mà** which is close to the English expression “it is why”.
  1. **còn gì** 。

Usage of spoken words **còn gì**. - Cultural notes: **1. Family meal culture of Vietnam** **2. Some cuisine address in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh city** |  - How to cook Vietnamese foods - In-class activity: Role-playing: work in pair; prepare a conversation and make Q &A. - Homework：
  1. Writing: Drills.
  2. **nào…ấy, nào…nấy, nào cũng được, ..mà, …còn gì**

Make sentences based on words, phrase and sentence patterns. |  4 |  6  
**11** |  **BÀI 6** **HOẠT ĐỘNG GIẢI TRÍ** |  - Discussion on homework - Dialogue- Classmates discuss about activities. - Vocabulary - Discussion on the content of dialogue - Reading: Answer to questions based on the content of the dialogue. - Explanation and definition of phrase and word. |  - Personal opinions and answer to questions with regards to“ **Activities for your free time** ” - Write a story about **your favorite entertainment** |  4 |  6  
**12** |  **BÀI 6** **HOẠT ĐỘNG GIẢI TRÍ** |  - Discussion on homework - Grammatical notes:
  1. **chứ** 。

Particle **chứ**(of course, surely).
  1. **chứ**

Conjunction **chứ**. 3. Structure: verb + **cho**. 4. The negation structure: **có gì...đâu**. Cultural notes: **Types of traditional entertainments in Vietnam.** |  - In-class activity: Role-playing: work in pair; prepare a conversation about “ **Hue Royal Court Music** ” and make Q &A - Homework：
  1. Writing: Drills.
  2. **“ …chứ”, “ verb + cho”, “ có…gì đâu”, tinh thần, thư thái**

Make sentences based on words, phrase and sentence patterns |  4 |  6  
**13** |  **BÀI 7** **QUAN HỆ** **XÃ HỘI** |  - Discussion on homework - Dialogue- **Oversea students discuss about their relationship**. - Vocabulary - Discussion on the content of dialogue - Reading: Answer to questions based on the content of the dialogue. - Explanation and definition of phrase and word. |  - Personal opinions and answer to questions with regards to “**Types of social relations** ” - Homework: Computer tying: Write about **your own social relations** – about 300 words. |  4 |  6  
**14** |  **BÀI 7** **QUAN HỆ** **XÃ HỘI** |  - Discussion on homework - Vocabulary - Grammatical notes: 1. Usage of words **hay là** “how about”. 2. Usage of words **hơn nữa** 3 . Usage of spoken word **kẻo**. 4. Structure: **A, lại B** - Cultural notes : **Vietnam culture with regard to hospitality.** |  - In-class activity: Role-playing: work in pair; prepare a conversation and make Q &A. - Homework：
  1. Writing: Drills.
  2. **hay là, hơn nữa, kẻo, A lại B, tần tảo, đơn sơ, tranh thủ**

Make sentences based on words, phrase and sentence patterns. |  4 |  6  
**15** |  **BÀI 8** **TRÁCH NHIỆM** |  - Discussion on homework - Dialogue between grandpa and grandson - Vocabulary - Discussion on the content of dialogue - Reading: Answer to questions based on the content of the dialogue. - Explanation and definition of phrase and word. - Grammatical notes:
  1. **Hễ…là/ hễ…thì** 「

Structure: **“hễ…là, hễ…thì”**.
  1. **đây**

**Đây** : Particle, placed at the end of sentence.
  1. **Những** :

Structure: **Những + number + noun**.
  1. **có vẻ như/ có lẽ**

Usage of word phrase**có vẻ như/ có lẽ** “maybe”. |  - Personal opinions and answer to questions with regards to “**The responsibility to family** ”. - What are responsibilities we should have? And explain “why”? Write about **the responsibilities for family and society**. - In-class activity: 角色扮演: Role-playing: work in pair; prepare a conversation and make Q &A. Homework： Writing: Drills. **hễ…là, hễ…thì, …đây, những, có vẻ như, có lẻ, bổn phận, sứ mệnh** |  4 |  6  
**16** |  **FINAL EXAM** |  Two students have a conversation based on a given topic. |  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_25%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Students are responsible for memorizing vocabulary, reviewing grammar, and reading materials before class in order to reserve valuable in-class time for oral practice. All assignments are sent to instructor's email prior to the deadlines. The final grades are determined by **4** parts as following:
  1. Attendance and participation (discussion, role-playing, in-class activities, meeting deadlines):15%
  2. Weekly homework (listening and writing): 20%
  3. Midterm exam: group presentation (cultural project): 30%
  4. Final Exam: group presentation (cultural project); 35%


For cultural projects, there will be 5 cultural projects assigned to students. Each project is presented by one group (2 students). The report is taken at the beginning of main lesson about 10 minutes and followed by five minutes discussions.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Tòa nghiên cứu 6031
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Nguyễn Thị Chiên
email:112510211@g.nccu.edu.tw
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
