國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：清邁歷史文化實地調查
#####  Course Name: Chiang Mai Historical and Cultural Field Study
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：510883001 Course No.510883001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_1.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：東南泰二 Course Department:Southeast Asian Languages and Cultures/B/2 
  * 授課老師：樊夏 Instructor: Valyamedhi Chawarote 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間： Session: 


##  課程簡介Course Description
Reviews on the socio-cultural production in Thailand by closely examining socio-economic entities in Chiang Mai, selected as representative areas, through field research.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 具備基本語言及應用能力 To possess basic language proficiency and application skills
  * B. 具備東南亞研究基礎知識 To obtain fundamental knowledge in Southeast Asian studies
  * C. 具備人文素養及思辨能力To possess humanistic literacy and critical thinking skills
  * D. 具備國際宏觀視野 To have an international perspective


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Gain a basic and deeper understanding of Thai society and the lives of its people through field research in Chiang Mai. This course is designed to help students achieve a deeper comprehension of Thai society and improve their language skills to handle various situations that may arise when working, investing, or traveling in Thailand.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**August** |  **Details** |  **Programs*** |  **Places, Cities**  
---|---|---|---  
13 Wednesday |  Meet at Hotel, Check-in time 15:00 |  **Check ****in ****at ****Asia ****Hotel ** **(BTW ****Ratchathewi)** |   
14 Thursday |  Meet at the lobby at 9:00 |  **Morning: ****Study Visit and Lecture:** Faculty of Liberal Arts, Mahidol University,  **Afternoon: ****Study Visit:** Cultural Scene of Central Thailand, Tha Chin River basin,  Wat Rai Khing, Donwai Market, (tentative: buddy activity) **Day ending** : Experience Sharing Session |  Mahidol University  
15 Friday |  Meet at the lobby at 8:00 |  **Morning: ****Study Visit and Lecture:** Faculty of Education Chulalongkorn University, **Afternoon:****Study Visit:** Institute of Southeast Asian Studies, Chulalongkorn University (tentative: buddy activity) **Day ending** : Experience Sharing Session |  Chulalongkorn University  
16 Saturday |  Meet at the lobby at 9:00 |  **Morning: ****Study Visit and Lecture:** Temple of the Emerald Buddha and the Grand Palace or Wat Pho (Buddy with Mahidol University’s students, Tentative) **Afternoon: ****Study Visit:** Rattanakosin Exhibition **Day ending** : Experience Sharing Session |  Bangkok   
17 Sunday |  Check-out time 11:00 Meet at CNX airport,  Check in at a hotel in Chiangmai City |  **Morning** : Freetime (prepare for Chiangmai) **Afternoon** : Departure to Chiangmai **Day ending** : Experience Sharing Session |  Chiangmai City  
18 Monday |  Meet at the lobby at 8:00 Move to Sanpatong (Tentative) |  **Morning: ****Study Visit and Lecture:** Saladaeng Village**,** San Pa Tong District  **Afternoon: ****Study Visit:** Cultural Exchange at Sanpatong  **Day ending** : Experience Sharing Session |  Sanpatong, Chiangmai  
19 Tuesday |  Meet at the lobby at 8:30 Check in at a hotel in Chiangmai City |  **Morning: ****Study Visit and Lecture:** Chiangmai University  **Afternoon: ****Study Visit:** Great Temples of Chiangmai: Wat Chedi Luang, Wat Phra Sing **Day ending** : Experience Sharing Session |  Chulalongkorn University, Chiangmai City  
20 Wednesday |  Meet at the lobby at 8:30 |  **Morning: ****Study Visit and Lecture:** Chiangmai Cultural Center  **Afternoon: ****Study Visit:** Great Temples of Chiangmai: Wat Chedi Luang, Wat Phra Sing, Daraphirom Museum **Day ending** : Experience Sharing Session |  Chiangmai City  
21 Thursday |  Check-out time 11:00 |  **Departure** |  Chiangmai Airport  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class Participation 30%  
Presentation 40%  
Final Paper 30%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Klausner, W. (2000). Reflections on Thai culture: Collected writings of William J. Klausner.
Miller, T. E., & Williams, S. (1998). The Garland encyclopedia of world music: Volume 4. New York, NY: Garland Pub.
Miller, Terry E. & Williams, Sean. (2008). The Garland handbook of Southeast Asian music. New York : Routledge
Tambiah, S. J. (1984). The Buddhist saints of the forest and the cult of amulets: A study in charisma, hagiography, sectarianism, and millennial Buddhism.
Thompson, D. (2002). Thai food: Arharn Thai. Berkeley, Calif: Ten Speed Press.
Valyamedhi, 2020, ‘From South to Southeast and from Stage to Altar: Hindu Magic and Buddhist Amulets Practice of Hanuman in Thai Folk Theravada Buddhism'. presented to 2020 Annual Conference of the Taiwan Society for Anthropology and Ethnology: World Making, Nantou, September 26-27.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Research Building Thursday 10:00-12:00 Hrs.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
