國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：翻譯專題：理論與實務
#####  Course Name: Topics on Translation : Theory and Practice
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：551742001 Course No.551742001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_10_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文碩一、英文碩二 Course Department:English/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：吳敏華 Instructor: WU MIN-HUA 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二567 Session: tue14-17 


##  課程簡介Course Description
The course is designed to instill translation theories and critical concepts in the English majors, to develop their translation potential, and to refine their translation skills by means of translation exercises studied at home and followed by corrections and in-depth discussions in the classroom that contribute to balancing abstract academic theories and practical translation skills so as to cultivate English-Chinese translation talents of professional attainment in both source and target languages. Essential theories and issues regarding cross-cultural as well as literary renditions—their limits, challenges and transcendences—will be elaborated and explored; practical information about translation studies, related important online or paper-based tools, and the _métier_ itself will be also introduced. A variety of pertinent and flexible tactics, strategies and skills needed to tackle with different kinds of English or Chinese text types will be taught, analyzed, compared as well as drilled throughout the course.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHIJ雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 建立英語教學、語言習得一般專業知識(To acquire a knowledge of English teaching and language acquisition)
  * B. 以多元角度思考分析文學文化專業領域中之特定議題(To examine specific issues in literary and cultural studies from different perspectives)
  * C. 反思社會文化現象並提出個人價值判斷(To reflect on social and cultural phenomena and to make individual value judgments)
  * D. 將專業知識應用到英語教學之相關實務(To apply professional knowledge in English teaching)
  * E. 運用語言學與語言教學相關研究議題之知能(To make practical applications of related researches on linguistics and language teaching)
  * F. 具備深度西方具備深度西方文學理論相關知識以詮釋並批判英美文學作品中所展現之各種文化現象(To gain an in-depth knowledge of Western literary theories in order to interpret or develop a critical understanding of the cultural phenomena in English and American literature)
  * G. 具備深度英語教學相關知識(To gain an in-depth knowledge of English teaching)
  * H. 具備深度英美文學知識，以多元角度思考分析專業領域特定議題 (To gain an in-depth understanding of the development of American and English literature in order to examine specific issues in literary and cultural studies from different perspectives)。 
  * I. 就特定的專業領域進行研究，發表學術論文(To conduct research in specialized fields and to present academic papers)
  * J. 綜合統整各種議題的相關資料，並提出個人獨特、具明顯貢獻的見解 (To develop original and significant critical comments on cultural issues by integrating existent discussions, theories, and historical sources.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of this course, students will find themselves equipped with the following knowledge or abilities:
1. Possess fundamental knowledge of important translation theories, theorists, scholars, critics, and criticisms in the Western and Chinese literary traditions
2. Possess fundamental understanding of the nature of translation as both art and science
3. Possess fundamental realization of the different standards of translation
4. Possess fundamental apprehension of the judgement of translation
5. Possess the ability of carrying out the sound translation (transliteration systems) for proper names
6. Possess the ability of domesticating the source language in the target language
7. Possess the ability of foreignizing the source language in the target language
8. Possess the ability of applying different skills to tackle with a variety of text types
9. Possess the ability of finding the most equivalent idiomatic expressions in the target language
10. Possess the ability of spotting common translation errors in everyday life
11. Possess the ability of fathoming out the imperfectness in an established translation
Learning Outcomes |  Evaluation Methods  
---|---  
  1. Grasp the grammar, vocabulary, and structure of the articles

|  Homework, presentation, project, or exam  
  1. Translate skillfully from English to Chinese and vice versa

|  Homework, presentation, project, or exam  
  1. Accept advice in order to proofread and correct one's own writing and translation

|  Homework, presentation, project, or exam  
  1. Appropriately use different sentence structures and translate logically

|  Homework, presentation, project, or exam  
  1. Cultivate the ability to think critically and to translate independently outside class

|  Homework, presentation, project, or exam  
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Topics on Translation: Theory and Practice (Fall 202****5****, Min-Hua Wu)**
All students are required to spend three hours preparing before class and three hours reviewing after class.
**Week** |  **Date** |  **Topic/Class Activity** |  **Required Readings** |  **Assignment**  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  **Sept.****2** |  Introduction  |  Introduction |  Texts to Translate / Chapter to study   
2 |  Sept. 9 |  Multiplicity in  Translation |  (Quiz) Chapter 1 + Homework Discussion  Transliteration systems  (Wade-Giles vs. Hanyu Pinin)  |  Texts to Translate / Chapter to study  
3 |  Sept. 16 |  Multiplicity in  Translation  |  (Quiz) Chapter 2 + Homework Discussion Translation Comparison: English Poems |  Texts to Translate / Chapter to study  
4 |  Sept. 23 |  Standards of  Translation  |  (Quiz) Chapter 3 + Homework Discussion  Translation Comparison: French Poems [AI in poetry translation] |  Texts to Translate / Chapter to study  
5 |  Sept. 30 |  Creativity in Translation  |  (Quiz) Examples of Creative or Impossible Translation to be shared and discussed |  Texts to Translate / Chapter to study  
6 |  Oct. 7 |  Critical Consciousness |  (Quiz) Chapter 4 + Homework Discussion Theory: John Dryden |  Texts to Translate / Chapter to study  
7 |  Oct. 14 |  Judgement of  Translation  |  (Quiz) Chapter 5 + Homework Discussion Theory: Matthew Arnold |  Texts to Translate / Chapter to study  
8 |  **Oct.****21** |  **Mid-term Exam** |  Oral Presentation on the term translation project [handout and insight] + Discussion and Feedback |  Mid-term Exam  
9 |  Oct. 28 |  Equivalence and Fidelity |  (Quiz) Chapter 6 + Homework Discussion Theory: Eugene Nida |  Texts to Translate / Chapter to study  
10 |  Nov. 4 |  Visibility vs. Invisibility |  (Quiz) Chapter 7 + Homework Discussion Theory: Lawrence Venuti |  Texts to Translate / Chapter to study  
11 |  Nov. 11 |  Translatability vs. Untranslatability |  (Quiz) Chapter 8 + Homework Discussion Theory: Walter Benjamin |  Texts to Translate / Chapter to study  
12 |  Nov. 18 |  Linguistics and Translation |  (Quiz) Chapter 9 + Homework Discussion Theory: Roman Jakobson |  Texts to Translate / Chapter to study  
13 |  Nov. 25 |  Politics and Translation |  (Quiz) Chapter 11 + Homework Discussion Theory: Gayatri Spivak  |  Texts to Translate / Chapter to study  
14 |  Dec. 2 |  Workshop  |  Chapter 12 + Homework Discussion Workshop: 
  1. Poetry Translation
  2. AI-assisted translation
  3. AI experience sharing
  4. Idiom translation and discussion
  5. Difficulties in the research project/paper

|  Texts to Translate / Chapter to study  
15 |  Dec. 9 |  Writing Week |  Writing the final translation project/paper |   
16 |  Dec. 16 |  One-on-one Conference and Final Paper [10-20 pp.] |  Submission of final translation project or research paper + one-on-one conference [How can I help you?] |  Final Paper / Project due  
*I reserve the right to modify the class schedule, requirements, and readings, if needed. All future changes will be announced in the class or through email. 
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_5%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_5%_
####  其他： Others: Taking part in a national translation contest or preparing for a master' program 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Grading Policy** 1. 
1. Class Attendance 10-100% 
2. Weekly Homework Presentation 20% 
3. Weekly Quiz 20% 
4. Mid-term Oral Project Presentation + Handouts 20% 
5. Final Written Research Paper or Translation Project [10-20 pp.] 30% 
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Course Materials  
1. Ye, Zinan and Lynette Xiaojing Shi. Introduction to Chinese-English Translation. Taipei: Bookman, 2011.  
2. Chinese-English Translation Handouts and Teaching Materials Compiled by the Instructor. (教師自編中英翻譯教材講義)  
3. Venuti, Lawrence ed. The Translation Studies Reader. 3rd Ed. London: Routledge, 2012.  
4. Robinson, Douglas ed. Western Translation Theory from Herodotus to Nietzsche. 2nd ed. London and New York: Routledge, 2014.  
5. Lefevere, André. Translation, Rewriting, and the Manipulation of Literary Fame. London and New York: Routledge, 1992.  
6. Yu, Kwang-Chung (余光中). “Digesting Nectar to Produce Honey: Analytical Comments on English Translations of Chinese Poetry.” http://www.ancientchinesepoetry.com/NTU_Award.php  
7. 錢鍾書。《林紓的翻譯：七綴集》，上海市：上海古籍出版社，1985。  
8. 錢鍾書。《錢鍾書英文文集》，北京市：外語教學與研究出版社，2006。  
8. 余光中。《翻譯乃大道 譯者獨憔悴：余光中翻譯論集》，台北市：九歌，2021。  
9. 許淵冲。《文學翻譯談》，台北市：書林，1998。  
10. Selected Academic Papers on the Art of Literary Translation and Translation Studies by Translation Scholars in the Chinese-speaking World.  
11. Pertinent Translation Materials or Examples Found in the Daily Life in Taiwan for Classroom Practice and Discussion.  
12. An NCCU alumna’s (柯乃瑜 Nai-yu Ker) decade-long blog on her translation and interpretation career: https://goingsoho.wordpress.com/
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:AI may be used to assist with assignments, but it must not be used to complete the entire homework on behalf of the student. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/06/09 114_1 One_Page Schedule of Topics on Translation__Theory and Practice _Fall 2025 Min_Hua Wu_ 2025.06.10.pdf  收合 
  * 2025/06/10 114_1 Topics on Translation__Theory and Practice _Fall 2024 Min_Hua Wu__2024.06.25.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Class Time: 14:10-16:00 Tuesday
Classroom: Room 340310 Jitao Building
Instructor: (Kevin) Min-Hua Wu 吳敏華
Office Hours: 10:00-14:00 Tuesday or by appointment
Office: Room 340333 Jitao Building
E-mail: keivnwu@nccu.edu.tw
Tel: (02)29393091-62395 (Internal extension)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
