國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：英語聽說教學 
#####  Course Name: Developing Oral Proficiency in English: Teaching Listening and Speaking
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：551837001 Course No.551837001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_15_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英文碩一、英博教一、英文碩二、英博教二 Course Department:English/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：許麗媛 Instructor: HSU LI-YUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
The primary objective of this course is to link theoretical bases with practical techniques for effectively teaching listening and speaking skills in the English classroom. The course addresses key issues in teaching these skills, including listening and speaking processes, instructional approaches, classroom tasks, and assessment methods.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGHIJ雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 建立英語教學、語言習得一般專業知識(To acquire a knowledge of English teaching and language acquisition)
  * B. 以多元角度思考分析文學文化專業領域中之特定議題(To examine specific issues in literary and cultural studies from different perspectives)
  * C. 反思社會文化現象並提出個人價值判斷(To reflect on social and cultural phenomena and to make individual value judgments)
  * D. 將專業知識應用到英語教學之相關實務(To apply professional knowledge in English teaching)
  * E. 運用語言學與語言教學相關研究議題之知能(To make practical applications of related researches on linguistics and language teaching)
  * F. 具備深度英語教學相關知識(To gain an in-depth knowledge of English teaching)
  * G. 具備深度西方具備深度西方文學理論相關知識以詮釋並批判英美文學作品中所展現之各種文化現象(To gain an in-depth knowledge of Western literary theories in order to interpret or develop a critical understanding of the cultural phenomena in English and American literature)
  * H. 就特定的專業領域進行研究，發表學術論文(To conduct research in specialized fields and to present academic papers)
  * I. 具備深度英美文學知識，以多元角度思考分析專業領域特定議題 (To gain an in-depth understanding of the development of American and English literature in order to examine specific issues in literary and cultural studies from different perspectives)。 
  * J. 綜合統整各種議題的相關資料，並提出個人獨特、具明顯貢獻的見解 (To develop original and significant critical comments on cultural issues by integrating existent discussions, theories, and historical sources.)


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Upon completion of the course, students should be able to:
  * Demonstrate an understanding of key concepts related to the teaching of English listening and speaking skills.
  * Critically reflect on current approaches to teaching English listening and speaking skills.
  * Adapt existing teaching materials and assessment tools for listening and speaking using the concepts and analytical approaches introduced in the coures.
  * Develop research questions concerning issues related to the teaching of listening and speaking skills in the EFL context.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
I. General requirements
  1. To preview and review the assigned readings
  2. To check the MOODLE course on a regular basis
  3. To participate actively in class discussions
  4. To give oral presentations on the assign reading and self-selected reading
  5. To turn in a research proposal

II. The weekly schedule |  **週次** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** |  **教學活動與課前、課後作業** |  **學生學習投入時間** **（含課堂教學時數）**  
---|---|---|---  
1.  9/5 | 
  1. Course Intro 
  2. Ch.1: L2 Listening Processes (R&B)

| 
  1. In-class reading & discussion

|  8 h.s  
2. 9/12 | 
  1. Ch.2: Listening Skills (R&B)
  2. Ch.3: Listening Strategies (R&B)

| 
  1. In-class reading & discussion

|  8 h.s  
3. 9/19 | 
  1. Ch.9: Designing Instruction (Rost)
  2. Ch.10: Listening Assessment (Rost)

| 
  1. In-class reading & discussion
  2. **Oral presentation 1:**

Rost (Ch 10) |  8 h.s  
4. 9/26 | 
  1. Goh, C. (2008). Metacognitive instruction for second language listening development._RELC_ , 39:2, 188-213.
  2. Vandergrift, L. & M.H. Tafaghodtari (2010). Teaching L2 learners how to listen does make a difference: An empirical study. _Language Learning_ 60.2, 470–497.

| 
  1. In-class reading & discussion
  2. **Oral presentation 2:**

Goh (2008) |  8 h.s  
5. 10/3 | 
  1. Milliner, B., & Dimoski, B. (2024). The effects of a metacognitive intervention on lower-proficiency EFL learners’ listening comprehension and listening self-efficacy. _Language Teaching Research_ , 28(2), 679-713.
  2. Zeng, Y., & Goh, C. C. M. (2018). A self-regulated learning approach to extensive listening and its impact on listening achievement and metacognitive awareness. _Studies in Second Language Learning and Teaching_ , 8(2), 193–218. 

| 
  1. In-class reading & discussion
  2. **Oral presentation 3**

Milliner & Dimoski (2024) |  8 h.s  
6. 10/10 |  OFF |  |  8 h.s  
7. 10/17 | 
  1. Chang et al. (2019). Developing listening fluency through supported extensive listening practice. RELC Journal, 50(3) 422–438 
  2. Tai, T. Y. & Chen, H. H. J. (2024). The impact of intelligent personal assistants on adolescent EFL learners’ listening comprehension, _Computer Assisted Language Learning_ , 37:3, 433-460

| 
  1. In-class reading & discussion
  2. **Oral presentation 4**

Chang et al. (2019)
  1. **Oral presentation 5:**

Tai & Chen (2024) |  8 h.s  
8. 10/24 |  OFF Midterm: Online video presentations (on the self-selected reading material not included in our class reading list) | 
  1. Create an 8- to 10-minute video presentation for a research article, including PowerPoint slides.

|  8 h.s  
9. 10/31 | 
  1. Ch.3: Speaking Competence (G&B)
  2. Ch.6: A Methodological Framework (G&B)

| 
  1. In-class reading & discussion


  1. **Oral presentation 6:**

G& B (Ch 6) |  8 h.s  
10. 11/7 | 
  1. Ch.12: Assessing Speaking (G&B)
  2. Chou, M. H. (2021). An integrated approach to developing and assessing EFL students’ speaking ability and strategy use. _Language Education & Assessment_, 4 (1), 19–37. 

| 
  1. In-class reading & discussion
  2. **Oral presentation 7:**

G&B (Ch12)
  1. **Oral presentation 8:**

Chou (2021) |  8 h.s  
11. 11/14 | 
  1. Yeh, H. C. & Lai, W. Y. (2019). Speaking progress and meaning negotiation processes in synchronous online tutoring. _System_ , 81, 179-191.


  1. Tai, T. Y., & Chen, H. H. J. (2024). Improving elementary EFL speaking skills with generative AI chatbots: Exploring individual and paired interactions. _Computers & Education_, 220, 105112.

| 
  1. In-class reading & discussion
  2. **Oral presentation 9:**

Yeh & Lai (2019)
  1. **Oral presentation 10:**

Tai & Chen (2024) |  8 h.s  
12. 11/21 | 
  1. Fathi, J., Rahimi, M., & Derakhshan, A. (2024). Improving EFL learners’ speaking skills and willingness to communicate via artificial intelligence-mediated interactions. _System_ , 121, 103254.
  2. Huang, H.T. D. (2023). Examining the effect of digital storytelling on English speaking proficiency, willingness to communicate, and group cohesion, _TESOL Quarterly, 57: 1_

| 
  1. In-class reading & discussion
  2. **Oral presentation 11:**

Fathi et al. (2024) |  8 h.s  
13. 11/28 | 
  1. Chen, M. R. A., & Hwang, G. J. (2020) Effects of a concept mapping‐based flipped learning approach on EFL students' English speaking performance, critical thinking awareness and speaking anxiety. _British Journal of Educational_ _Technology_
  2. Chou, M. (2018). Speaking anxiety and strategy use for learning English as a foreign language in full and partial English‐medium instruction contexts.  _TESOL Quarterly,52_ , 611-633.

| 
  1. **Oral presentation 12:**
  2. Chen & Hwanag (2020)
  3. **Oral presentation 13:**

Chou (2018) |  8 h.s  
14. 12/5 | 
  1. Zheng, Y., & Barrot, J. S. (2022). Social media as an e-portfolio platform: Effects on L2 learners’ speaking performance. _Language Learning & Technology,_ 26(1).
  2. Zou, B., Wang, C., Yan, Y., Du, X., & Ji, Y. (2025). Exploring English as a foreign language learners’ adoption and utilisation of ChatGPT for speaking practice through an extended technology acceptance model. _International Journal of Applied Linguistics_ , 35(2), 689–704.

| 
  1. In-class reading & discussion
  2. **Oral presentation 14:**

Zou et al. (2025) |  8 h.s  
15. 12/12 | 
  1. Paterson, R. (2022). Prompting metacognitive reflection to facilitate speaking improvements in learners of English as a foreign language. _English Teaching & Learning, 46_, 157–177.
  2. Zhang, W., Zhang, D., & Zhang, L. J. (2021). Metacognitive instruction for sustainable learning: Learners’ perceptions of task difficulty and use of metacognitive strategies in completing integrated speaking tasks. _Sustainability_ , 13(11), 6275.

| 
  1. In-class reading & discussion
  2. **Oral presentation 15**

Paterson (2022)
  1. **Oral presentation 16**

Zhang et al. (2021)  |  8 h.s  
16. 12/19 | 
  1. Research proposal oral reports (5-10 mins per person)
  2. How to write a research proposal

| 
  1. In-class reading & discussion
  2. Research proposals due on 12/31

|  8 h.s  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_35%_
####  講述 Lecture
_35%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_30%_
####  其他： Others: 口頭報告 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  * Attendance, participation, discussions, and other assignments 20% 
  * An oral presentation on the assigned reading 25% 
  * An oral presentation on the self-selected reading material (online) 20%
  * Final research proposal 35%


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
All class reading materials can be accessed online via MOODLE.
I. Book Chapters
  1. Richards, J. C. & Burns, A. (2012)._Tips for teaching listening: A practical approach._ White Plains: Pearson Education. (Chapters1-3)
  2. Rost, M. (2016) Teaching and researching listening. New York: Routledge. (Chapters 9 & 10) 
  3. Goh, C. C. M, & Burns, A. (2012). _Teaching speaking: A holistic approach._ New York: Cambridge University Press. (Chapters 3, 6, and 12)


II. Journal papers (See syllabus for details)
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:AI Use (Conditional): Permitted only for editing grammar, vocabulary, and sentence structure. Content generation is not allowed. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
  * Office: R416, Research Bld.
  * Office Hours: 13-16 Mon & 9-12 Wen (_By Appointment_)


###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
無
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
