國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：語言理解與心智語法
#####  Course Name: Language Comprehension and Mental Grammar
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：555756001 Course No.555756001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：語言碩一、語言博一、語言碩二、語言博二 Course Department:Institute of Linguistics/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：賴瑶鍈 Instructor: LAI YAO-YING 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course addresses how human beings process language in real-time, grounded in the architecture of our mental grammar and cognitive systems. We will discuss various psycholinguistic models of language processing rooted in different theoretical frameworks of linguistics, with an emphasis on the integration of experimental evidence and theoretical analysis. To understand how our language architecture supports online sentence comprehension, we will take an overview of the theoretical accounts, examine the linguistic patterns and empirical findings, and discuss the advantages/disadvantages of different processing models via a range of phenomena, mainly including cases of morphosyntax and semantics-pragmatics. 
The focus will be placed on evaluating different views of the language architecture, lexical retrieval, syntax-semantic interface, ambiguity resolution, and contextual impact during online computation. In addition, we will explore the relationship between the linguistic system and nonlinguistic cognition (e.g., social cognition, memory, and cognitive control), discussing how these components interact to shape the patterns of language processing. 
**** 第一週課程時間調至 9/01 (一) 10:10 (教室：季陶樓 Rm. 315)**
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 理論語言學Theoretical linguistics
  * B. 應用語言學Applied linguistics
  * C. 研究能力Research skills
  * D. 外語能力Language skills
  * E. 語言學專業領域Professional abilities in linguistics
  * F. 語言學相關領域Abilities in fields to linguistics
  * G. 研究能力Research skills
  * H. 外語能力Language skills


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
**In this course, students will learn:**
  * The structures of mental grammar and the interfaces between linguistic components
  * Various models of real-time language processing
  * Accounts of how the human language parser tackles with comprehension issues
  * Techniques and methods in psycholinguistic research
  * The interplay between linguistics and cognitive psychology


**Through this course, the students will be able to:**
  * Understand the major themes and models of human language processing
  * Understand how our mental grammar supports sentence comprehension
  * Appreciate different perspectives on the architecture of human language system
  * Apply the scientific method and argumentation to research


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** In-class Hours |  **課程前後** Outside-of-class Hours  
**01** (09/01) |  Course overview  
****第一週課程時間調至 9/01 (一) 10:10**   
**(地點：季陶樓 Rm. 315)** | Reading, Lecture & Discussion  |  3 |  5  
**02** (09/11) |  The architecture of the human language system | Reading, Lecture & Discussion  |  3 |  5  
**03**(09/18) |  Mental lexicon Lexical encoding & retrieval |  Reading, Lecture & Discussion  |  3 |  6  
**04**(09/25) | Reading, Lecture & Discussion  |  3 |  5  
**05** (10/02) |  Serial accounts  
of language processing | Reading, Lecture & Discussion  | 3 |  6  
**06**(10/09) | Reading, Lecture & Discussion  |  3 |  5  
**07** (10/16) |  Constraint-satisfaction approach |  Reading, Lecture & Discussion  |  3 |  6  
**08**(10/23) | Reading, Lecture & Discussion  |  3 |  5  
**09** (10/30) |  Project outline Presentation |  Mid-Term |  3 |  6  
**10** (11/06) |  Connectionist models | Reading, Lecture & Discussion  |  3 |  5  
**11**(11/13) |  Good-Enough approach  to language processing |  Reading, Lecture & Discussion  |  3 |  5  
**12** (11/20) |  Parser-Grammar relations | Reading, Lecture & Discussion  |  3 |  6  
**13** (11/27) |  Parallel Architecture  
for language comprehension
#### ****** Panel discussion with Prof. Piñango  
(Dept. of Linguistics, Yale University, USA)
|  Reading, Lecture & Discussion  |  3 |  6  
**14**(12/04) |  The processing of Semantic composition  
and Pragmatics | Reading, Lecture & Discussion  |  3 |  5  
**15**(12/11) |  Impact of nonlinguistic cognition  & Individual differences | Reading, Lecture & Discussion  |  3 |  5  
**16** (12/18) |  Term Project Presentation |  Oral presentation  |  3 |  8  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_60%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_10%_
####  其他： Others: 個人專題報告之自主學習 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Grading:**
  * In-class participation ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 25%
  * Paper summary ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 10%
  * In-class quiz ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 10%
  * Midterm project presentation ∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙∙ 15%
  * Term project (oral & written report) ∙∙∙∙ 40%


**Academic Integrity:**
Students are required to remain truthful in presentations, papers, and reports throughout the course. Plagiarism, lying, falsification, fabrication, improper use of electronic devices, taking others' ideas without permission, or other dishonesty are prohibited and will result in penalties according to the university policy.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
We will read and discuss articles associated with the topic of each week from various sources (journal papers, book chapters, etc.).  
*The articles to read are _subject to change_ , adjustable according to the interests of the enrolled students and the course schedule as we proceed.
  * Abeillé, A., Hemforth, B., Winckel, E., & Gibson, E. (2020). Extraction from subjects: Differences in acceptability depend on the discourse function of the construction. _Cognition_ , 204, 104293.
  * Altmann, G. (1987). Modularity and interaction in sentence processing.  _Modularity in knowledge representation and natural language processing_ , 428-444.
  * Baggio, G. (2021). Compositionality in a parallel architecture for language processing.  _Cognitive Science_ ,  _45_(5), e12949.
  * Byrd & Mintz (2010) Ch4 - Scientific Method and Experimental Design.  _Discovering speech, words, and mind_. John Wiley & Sons.
  * Chow, W. Y., Smith, C., Lau, E., & Phillips, C. (2016). A “bag-of-arguments” mechanism for initial verb predictions.  _Language, Cognition and Neuroscience_ ,  _31_(5), 577-596.
  * Crain, S., Ni, W., Shankweiler, D., Conway, L., & Braze, D. (1996). Meaning, memory, and modularity. In  _Proceedings of the NELS 26 Sentence Processing Workshop, MIT Occasional Papers in Linguistics_ (Vol. 9, pp. 27-44).
  * Frazier, L. (2015). Two interpretive systems for natural language?.  _Journal of psycholinguistic research_ ,  _44_(1), 7-25.
  * Frazier, L. & Fodor, J. D. (1978). The sausage machine: A new two-stage parsing model.  _Cognition_ ,  _6_(4), 291-325. 
  * Ferreira, F. & Patson, N. D. (2007). The ‘good enough’ approach to language comprehension.  _Language and Linguistics Compass_ ,  _1_(1‐2), 71-83.
  * Frisson, S. & Traxler, M. J. (2013). Semantic interpretation of sentences. In  _Sentence processing_ (pp. 172-200). Psychology Press.
  * Gibson, E. & Fedorenko, E. (2013). The need for quantitative methods in syntax and semantics research.  _Language and Cognitive Processes_ ,  _28_(1-2), 88-124.
  * Libben, G., Gagné, C. L., & Dressler, W. U. (2020). The representation and processing of compounds words.  _Word knowledge and word usage_ ,  _336_(10.1093).
  * Jackendoff, R. (2002).  _Foundations of language: Brain, meaning, grammar, evolution_. Oxford University Press, USA.
  * Jackendoff, R. (2007). A parallel architecture perspective on language processing.  _Brain research_ ,  _1146_ , 2-22.
  * Jackendoff, R. (2010). The parallel architecture and its place in cognitive science. In  _The Oxford handbook of linguistic analysis_.
  * Joanisse, M. F. & McClelland, J. L. (2015). Connectionist perspectives on language learning, representation and processing.  _Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Cognitive Science_ ,  _6_(3), 235-247.
  * Karimi, H. & Ferreira, F. (2016). Good-enough linguistic representations and online cognitive equilibrium in language processing.  _Quarterly journal of experimental psychology_ ,  _69_(5), 1013-1040.
  * Kidd, E., Donnelly, S., & Christiansen, M. H. (2018). Individual differences in language acquisition and processing.  _Trends in cognitive sciences_ ,  _22_(2), 154-169.
  * Kuperberg, G. R., & Jaeger, T. F. (2016). What do we mean by prediction in language comprehension?.  _Language, cognition and neuroscience_ ,  _31_(1), 32-59.
  * Lewis, S. & Phillips, C. (2015). Aligning grammatical theories and language processing models.  _Journal of Psycholinguistic Research_ ,  _44_(1), 27-46.
  * MacDonald, M. C., Pearlmutter, N. J., & Seidenberg, M. S. (1994). Syntactic ambiguity resolution as lexical ambiguity resolution.
  * Martin, A. E. & Baggio, G. (2020). Modelling meaning composition from formalism to mechanism.  _Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B_ ,  _375_(1791), 20190298.
  * Novick, J. M., Hussey, E., Teubner-Rhodes, S., Harbison, J. I., & Bunting, M. F. (2014). Clearing the garden-path: Improving sentence processing through cognitive control training.  _Language, Cognition and Neuroscience_ ,  _29_(2), 186-217.
  * Phillips, C. (2013). Parser-grammar relations: We don’t understand everything twice.  _Language Down the Garden Path: The Cognitive and Biological Basis for Linguistic Structures_ , 294-315.
  * Piñango, M. M. (2019). Concept composition during language processing: Two case studies and a model. In  _The Routledge handbook of Chinese applied linguistics_ (pp. 624-644). Routledge.
  * Piñango, M. M. (2023). Solving the elusiveness of word meanings: two arguments for a continuous meaning space for language.  _Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence_ ,  _6_ , 1025293.
  * Sanford, A. J. & Sturt, P. (2002). Depth of processing in language comprehension: Not noticing the evidence.  _Trends in cognitive sciences_ ,  _6_(9), 382-386.
  * Shapiro, L. P., Zurif, E. B., & Grimshaw, J. (1989). Verb processing during sentence comprehension: Contextual impenetrability.  _Journal of psycholinguistic research_ ,  _18_(2), 223-243.
  * Swinney, D. A. (1979). Lexical access during sentence comprehension: (Re) consideration of context effects.  _Journal of verbal learning and verbal behavior_ ,  _18_(6), 645-659.
  * Townsend, D. J. & Bever, T. G. (2001).  _Sentence comprehension: The integration of habits and rules_. MIT Press.
  * Thothathiri, M., Asaro, C. T., Hsu, N. S., & Novick, J. M. (2018). Who did what? A causal role for cognitive control in thematic role assignment during sentence comprehension.  _Cognition_ ,  _178_ , 162-177.
  * Trueswell, J. C., & Tanenhaus, M. K. (1994). Toward a lexicalist framework of constraint-based syntactic ambiguity resolution.
  * Trueswell, J. C., Tanenhaus, M. K., & Garnsey, S. M. (1994). Semantic influences on parsing: Use of thematic role information in syntactic ambiguity resolution.  _Journal of memory and language_ ,  _33_(3), 285-318.
  * Van Gompel, R. P. (Ed.). (2013).  _Sentence processing_. Psychology Press.
  * Van Gompel, R. P., Pickering, M. J., & Traxler, M. J. (2001). Reanalysis in sentence processing: Evidence against current constraint-based and two-stage models.  _Journal of Memory and Language_ ,  _45_(2), 225-258.


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:allowed for editing purposes Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Wednesday 16:00~18:00
集英樓 3F, Rm. 170314
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
