國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：情態詞專題
#####  Course Name: Topics in Modality
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：555730001 Course No.555730001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：語言碩一、語言博一、語言碩二、語言博二 Course Department:Institute of Linguistics/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：郭岳鑫 Instructor: KUO YUEH-HSIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
Modality refers to the meaning(s) expressed by words like _can_ , _should_ , _must_ , _possibly_ and _probably_. They display one of the hallmarks of language, ‘displacement’, namely the ability to talk and think about things that are not happening in the here and now. For example, when a speaker says ‘you may leave now’, the addressee is not leaving at the point of utterance. When a speaker says ‘it may rain’, it’s not raining. The importance of modality has attracted the attention of many research traditions. In this course we’ll explore two, the formal (philosophical/logical) and the cognitive-functional traditions, with a stronger focus on the latter. We’ll learn key concepts in modality research such as possible world semantics, (inter)subjectivity and performativity and how they interact with syntax, metaphor and metonymy. No prior knowledge is assumed.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 理論語言學Theoretical linguistics
  * B. 應用語言學Applied linguistics
  * C. 研究能力Research skills
  * D. 外語能力Language skills
  * E. 語言學專業領域Professional abilities in linguistics
  * F. 語言學相關領域Abilities in fields to linguistics
  * G. 研究能力Research skills
  * H. 外語能力Language skills
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
_Course Objectives_ _:_
(1) To introduce students to basic theoretical assumptions and tools in different traditions of modality research;
(2) To develop analytical skills necessary for linguistic research, e.g. introspection-based grammaticality judgement and corpus-based approaches;
(3) To broaden students’ knowledge of a variety of theoretical frameworks and enhance their ability to evaluate them critically.
_Learning Outcomes_ _:_
(1) Academic skills:
(a) Ability to engage critically with previous studies; 
(b) Ability to design own research projects;
(c) Ability to collect and analyse data.
(2) Transferable skills:
(a) Ability to evaluate and process complex information;
(b) Ability to produce complex information in an accessible way;
(c) Ability to describe modal meanings that is conducive to language teaching.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Week |  Block |  Topic |  Reading |  Activities  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction |  What’s modality |  Lecture & discussion  
2 |  Classifications of modality |  Narrog Ch. 2.1-2.3  
3 |  Formal approaches |  Propositional and predicate logic |  Kroeger Chs. 3 & 4 |  Lecture & in-class exercises  
4 |  Modality and conditionality |  Kroeger Chs. 16 & 19  
5 |  Modality and syntax |  Tsai  
6 |  Functional approaches |  Metaphor |  Sweetser Ch. 3 |  Lecture & discussion  
7 |  Metonymy |  Traugott & Dasher Ch. 3  
8 |  Modality as attitudinal |  Nuyts Ch. 3  
9 |  Midterm summary and feedback  
10 |  Corpus approaches |  Lecture & in-class exercises  
11 |  Case studies |  English modals |  Hilpert Cappelle & Depraetere, Leclercq |  Lecture & discussion  
12  
13  
14 |  Chinese modals |  Kuo  
15  
16 |  Final presentations  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.