國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：環太平洋語言：歷史，語言，社會與政治
#####  Course Name: The Languages of the Pacific: History, Linguistics, Sociology, and Politics
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：555767001 Course No.555767001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：語言碩一、語言碩二 Course Department:Institute of Linguistics/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：戴智偉 Instructor: DE BUSSER RIK LOUIS JOSE 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12 


##  課程簡介Course Description
Despite the fact that the Pacific Region is largely covered by water, it is a culturally extremely diverse region. From Island South-East, and more than 2300 languages on its islands. In this course, we investigate from an interdisciplinary perspective the languages belonging to the main language groups of the Pacific region: the Australian, Papuan, and Austronesian language families, and various languages that entered the Pacific area in colonial times. We discuss their history, their present distribution and status, their associated cultures, and some of their structural properties. While mainly focusing on indigenous languages, we also spend some time on the linguistic impact of different colonization waves. In a number of case studies, students will present interesting aspects of key languages.
This course is taught in English.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 理論語言學Theoretical linguistics
  * B. 應用語言學Applied linguistics
  * C. 研究能力Research skills
  * D. 外語能力Language skills


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course aims at given students a solid basic knowledge about:
  * The various languages families and their representative languages that today exist in the Pacific Region.
  * Their history, interactions, geographical distributions, cultural background, political importance, and general linguistic properties.
  * Their relevance in the context of interdisciplinary studies of the Pacific.


At the end of this course students will have:
  * Obtained a broad understanding of the various languages and language families in the Pacific.
  * Obtained a general understanding of their history, interactions, geographical distribution, cultural background, and general linguistic properties. 
  * Conducted research on aspects of selected languages in the Pacific, and presented their findings in class and in an academic paper.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Content and readings** |  **Activities** |  **Estimated work load (incl. hours in class)**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction |  Lecture |  5  
2 |  Peopling the Pacific I: Pacific prehistory |  Required reading, lecture, discussion |  5  
3 |  Peopling the Pacific II: Modern man |  Required reading, lecture, discussion |  5  
4 |  Australian languages I |  Required reading, lecture, discussion |  5  
5 |  Indigenous Australia II: Case studies |  Lecture, Presentations, discussion |  5  
6 |  Papuan languages I |  Required reading, lecture, discussion |  5  
7 |  Papuan languages II: Case studies |  Lecture, Presentations, discussion |  5  
8 |  Austronesian languages I: Taiwan, the Philippines, Indonesia, Madagascar |  Required reading, lecture, discussion |  5  
9 |  Midterms |  Write abstract |  5  
10 |  Austronesian languages II: The Deep Pacific |  Required reading, lecture, discussion |  5  
11 |  Austronesian languages III: Case studies |  Lecture, Presentations, discussion  |  5  
12 |  East Asian languages I: The Western fringe |  Required reading, lecture, discussion |  5  
13 |  East Asian languages II: Case studies |  Lecture, Presentations, discussion |  5  
14 |  Languages of globalization I: Colonization and creolization |  Required reading, lecture, discussion |  5  
15 |  Conclusion |  Lecture, discussion |  5  
16 |  Final exam |  Exam |  5  
This is a preliminary schedule. The final schedule of this course will be compiled in consultation with the students.
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Participation in discussions: 40%  
Presentations: 30%  
Mid-term abstract & final essay: 30%
For the final essay, you have to choose a topic and propose a research plan in a mid-term report. In order to pass your essay you need to demonstrate that:
  * You understand the information presented to you during the lectures and in your required reading.
  * You are able to conduct independent academic research, by correctly referring to linguistic studies that are not part of the course materials or reference materials.
  * You are able to write a well-structured essay in English.


**Grading scale**
|  100-90 |  89-85 |  80-84 |  79-70 |  69-60 |  50-59 |  50-0  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  A+ |  A |  A- |  B |  C |  D |  E  
Graduate |  Pass |  Fail |   
Undergrad |  Pass |  Fail  
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
A list of required and optional readings will be made available at the beginning of the semester.
**Reference works** :
Adelaar, K. Alexander & Nikolaus P. Himmelmann (eds.). 2005. T _he Austronesian Languages of Asia and Madagascar_. London: Routledge.
Bellwood, Peter. 1997. _Prehistory of the Indo-Malaysian Archipelago, Revised Edition_. Honolulu: University of Hawai’i Press.
Blust, Robert. 2013. The Austronesian Languages, Revised Edition. Canberra: Pacific Linguistics, Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies, Australian National University. URL: http://pacling.anu.edu.au/materials/Blust2013Austronesian.pdf
Foley, William A. 1986. _The Papuan Languages of New Guinea_. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Mühlhäusler, Peter. 1996. _Linguistic Ecology: Language Change and Linguistic Imperialism in the Pacific Region_. London: Routledge.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:AI tools are only allowed for analysis and editing. Content generation with AI tools is forbidden. The use of AI must be clearly indicated. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Wednesday 14:00 or on appointment.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Help with class administration and collecting materials.
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
