國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：田野調查 
#####  Course Name: Field Methods
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：555867001 Course No.555867001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：語言碩一、語言博一、語言碩二、語言博二 Course Department:Institute of Linguistics/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：戴智偉 Instructor: DE BUSSER RIK LOUIS JOSE 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course teaches students how to conduct linguistic fieldwork. This course has two components: lectures and a one-and-a-half to two-week fieldwork session.
During the first part of the semester, lectures introduce student to fieldwork methodology. Topics include recording techniques, data gathering procedures, ethical and practical issues, linguistic background knowledge, and specialized software for language documentation. Accompanying practice sessions, allow them to practice applying this knowledge in the context of linguistic fieldwork and to prepare for the second part of this course.
The second part of this course consists of a fieldwork trip to a location to be determined in consultation with the students. Students will participate in a two-week immersion fieldwork trip during the summer holidays, gather data on an Indigenous language of Taiwan, process this data, and produce a fieldwork report.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 理論語言學Theoretical linguistics
  * B. 應用語言學Applied linguistics
  * C. 研究能力Research skills
  * D. 外語能力Language skills
  * E. 語言學專業領域Professional abilities in linguistics
  * F. 語言學相關領域Abilities in fields to linguistics
  * G. 研究能力Research skills
  * H. 外語能力Language skills


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course teaches students how to do linguistic fieldwork with the aim of producing a grammatical description, a dictionary, and a text corpus of a previously undocumented or underdocumented language. Through lectures and practical exercises, students will acquire a theoretical and practical knowledge of the methods, techniques, and technologies commonly used by documentary linguists. Students will apply this knowledge in immersion fieldwork.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** |  **教學活動與課前、課後作業** |  **學生學習投入時間** **（含課堂教學時數）**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction |  Lecture, in-class exercise |  3  
2 |  General methodology; Recording audio and video |  Required reading, lecture, in-class exercise, homework |  5  
3 |  Phonology |  Required reading, lecture, in-class exercise, homework |  5  
4 |  Wordlists and dictionaries |  Required reading, lecture, in-class exercise, homework |  5  
5 |  Transcription and translation: interlinear transcription |  Required reading, lecture, in-class exercise, homework |  5  
6 |  Elicitation |  Required reading, lecture, in-class exercise, homework |  5  
7 |  Stimuli |  Required reading, lecture, in-class exercise, homework |  5  
8 |  Software for language documentation: An overview |  Required reading, lecture, in-class exercise, homework |  5  
9 |  ELAN – Annotation and transcription |  Required reading, lecture, in-class exercise, homework |  5  
10 |  FLEx – Vocabulary management |  Required reading, lecture, in-class exercise, homework |  5  
11 |  FLEx – Text analysis |  Required reading, lecture, in-class exercise, homework |  5  
12 |  Fieldwork ethics and safety |  Required reading, lecture, in-class exercise, homework |  3  
13 |  Preparation fieldwork |  Discussion |  3  
14 |  Fieldwork |  Fieldwork |  7  
15 |  Fieldwork |  Fieldwork |  7  
16 |  (Fieldwork report) |  Writing |  7  
**Part 1: Lectures and simulated fieldwork**
The first component of these course consists of twelve lectures. Lectures consist of a theoretical component, and a practice session, in which students have the opportunity to practice fieldwork techniques in a controlled environment.
From the second week onwards, students prepare by reading introductory texts. Homework consists of analyses of the information students gather during the practice sessions.
**Part 2: Immersion fieldwork**
A fieldwork trip of one to two weeks to a location in Nantou in order to study the Bunun language. Students will conduct fieldwork under guidance of the lecturer and local language consultants, while living in the environment where the language under study is spoken.
  * The exact location and date of our fieldtrip will be determined in consultation with the students. It is generally scheduled at the end of the semester, after the final exams.
  * The fieldtrip is an obligatory part of this course. Make sure that you are able and allowed to participate in it before you decide to participate in this course.
  * Students will be required to write a fieldwork report at the end of the trip.


**Important information**
  * **Computer** : For this course, each student will need access to a computer (preferably a Windows laptop). If you do not have your own laptop, or you want to use a Mac, please contact me before the start of classes.
  * **Recording equipment** : For some of the practice sessions and during fieldwork, you might work in small groups. Each group will need at least one professional solid-state audio recorder, and might need additional equipment such as a camera and one or more microphones. You and your group will be held responsible for the recording equipment. 
  * **Costs** : Acquiring knowledge is expensive. While there might be funding to cover part of our fieldtrip, students are generally required to bear part of the costs of their fieldtrip themselves. At the very least you can expect expenses related to transportation to and from the field site, accommodation, and a daily allowance for yourself.


##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_40%_
####  其他： Others: 田野調查 / Linguistic fieldwork 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  1. Attendance and participation: 30% 
  2. Homework: 20% 
  3. Participation fieldwork: 20% 
  4. Fieldwork report: 30%


  * Students are expected to attend class and to arrive in class on time. Non-sanctioned absence will negatively influence your grades.
  * Students are expected to actively participate in class.
  * Students are expected to make their homework and hand it in on time.
  * Students are required to participate in the final fieldwork trip and to write a fieldwork report.


**Grading scale**
|  100-90 |  89-85 |  80-84 |  79-70 |  69-60 |  50-59 |  50-0  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  A+ |  A |  A- |  B |  C |  D |  E  
Graduate |  Pass |  Fail |   
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Readings will be made available during the course of the semester.
**Websites**
SIL International. 2012. _SIL FieldWorks Language Explorer (FLEx)._ SIL International. http://fieldworks.sil.org/flex/
Software for fieldwork data analysis.
2008. _The Leipzig Glossing Rules: Conventions for interlinear morpheme-by-morpheme glosses_. URL: http://www.eva.mpg.de/lingua/resources/glossing-rules.php
The most commonly used marking scheme for interlinear glosses.
**General reference works**
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. (ed.). 2007. Sprachtypologie und Universalienforschung. Language Typology and Universals 6(1). Focus on: Linguistic Fieldwork. Bremen: Akademie Verlag.
Bowern, Claire. 2008. _Linguistic Fieldwork: A Practical Guide_. Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan.
Chelliah, Shobhana L. & Willem J. de Reuse. _Handbook of Descriptive Linguistic Fieldwork_. Dordrecht: Springer.
Dixon, Robert M. W. 2009. _Basic Linguistic Theory Volume 2: Grammatical Topics_. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Payne, Thomas E. 1997. _Describing Morphosyntax. A Guide for Field Linguists_. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Shopen, Timothy. 2007. _Language Typology and Syntactic Description, 2nd Edition_ (3 vol.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:AI tools can be used as a help in the analysis, but not to generate content. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
TDB. On appointment.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Help in the general administration of the course and in the preparation of fieldwork sessions.
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
