國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：語音學 
#####  Course Name: Advanced Phonetics
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：555808001 Course No.555808001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：語言碩一、語言博一、語言碩二、語言博二 Course Department:Institute of Linguistics/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：萬依萍 Instructor: WAN I-PING 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一12C Session: mon08-10&12-13


##  課程簡介Course Description
This class provides an introduction to the acoustic properties of speech sounds along with the anatomy and physiology of speech production. In particular, the course examines various aspects of human speech production and perception as well as the nature of the acoustic signal transmitted from speaker to listener.
The acoustic features to be explored include time-domain properties such as waveform amplitude, duration and fundamental frequency (F₀) as well as frequency-domain characteristics such as the frequency spectrum, spectrogram and combined spectrotemporal features.
The course also includes hands-on training in transcribing and identifying sounds using the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA). Students will learn to create and analyze broadband spectrograms using PRAAT (Boersma & Weenink, 2020) and will explore a wide range of articulatory and acoustic patterns found in the world’s languages.
The course consists of two-hour lecture sessions and one-hour laboratory components each week.
_**Notes:**_
_**1. 加退選課期間歡迎旁聽選課，加退選截止日過後課堂學生必須為正式選課生，本門課不收旁聽生。**_
**Students who enroll in the class in an official capacity will receive a grade and course credit. Auditing or sitting in on the class is not permitted.**
**_2. 2025年11月24日至12月7日之間開設的課程將以線上方式進行。_**
**Courses offered between November 24 and December 7 will be conducted online.**
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 理論語言學Theoretical linguistics
  * B. 應用語言學Applied linguistics
  * C. 研究能力Research skills
  * D. 外語能力Language skills
  * E. 語言學專業領域Professional abilities in linguistics
  * F. 語言學相關領域Abilities in fields to linguistics
  * G. 研究能力Research skills
  * H. 外語能力Language skills


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This class provides an introduction to the acoustic properties of speech sounds along with the anatomy and physiology of speech production. In particular, the course examines various aspects of human speech production and perception as well as the nature of the acoustic signal transmitted from speaker to listener.
The acoustic features to be explored include time-domain properties such as waveform amplitude, duration and fundamental frequency (F₀) as well as frequency-domain characteristics such as the frequency spectrum, spectrogram and combined spectrotemporal features.
The course also includes hands-on training in transcribing and identifying sounds using the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA). Students will learn to create and analyze broadband spectrograms using PRAAT (Boersma & Weenink, 2020) and will explore a wide range of articulatory and acoustic patterns found in the world’s languages.
The course consists of two-hour lecture sessions and one-hour laboratory components each week.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
_**Week**_ | **_Day_** | _**Lecture Topic, Readings, and Assignments**_  
---|---|---  
1 | 9/1 |  Introduction to course; Review articulatory phonetics and IPA symbols Language Demo: American English _Reading_ : Reetz & Jongman_C1  
2 | 9/8 |  Articulaiton: Stricture Type and Location _Reading_ : Cartford_C4-C5 _Assignment #1_ : Parts of the vocal apparatus  
3 | 9/15 |  Phonetic Transcription Language Demo: Dutch and German (Consonants); French and Potuguese (Vowels) _Readings_ : Reetz & Jongman_C3; IPA: Appendices _Assignment #2_ : IPA exercises  
4 | 9/22 |  Place and Manner of Articulation Language Demo: Arabic (Consonants); Hindi (Consonants); Hungarian (Vowels) _Reading_ : Reetz & Jongman_C4  
5 | 9/29 | HOLIDAY (NO CLASS)  
6 | 10/6 | HOLIDAY (NO CLASS)  
7 | 10/13 |  Physiology of the Vocal Apparatus _Reading_ : Reetz & Jongman_C5 _Assignment #3_ : Mathematics exercise  
8 | 10/20 |  Airstream Mechanism; Sound Waves _Reading_ : Reetz & Jongman_C6-C7  
9 | 10/27 |  Fourier Transform _Reading_ : Reetz & Jongman_C8  
10 | 11/3 |  The Source-Filter Theory of Speech Production _Reading_ : Reetz & Jongman_C9  
11 | 11/10 |  Acoustics: Vowels _Reading_ : Chapter 10 _Assignment #4_ : Spectrogram analysis on vowels  
12 | 11/17 |  Acoustics: Fricatives _Reading_ : Chapter 10 _Assignment #4_ : Spectrogram analysis on vowels  
13 | 11/24 |  Acoustics: Stops and Affricates _Readings_ : Chapter 10  
14 | 12/1 |  Acoustics: Spectrogram on connected speech _Assignment #5_ : Spectrogram analysis on consonants  
15 | 12/8 |  Syllables and Suprasegmentals _Reading_ : Chapter 11 Langugae Demo: Cantonese and Thai (Tone); Japanese and Korean (Pitch-Accent) _Assignment #6_ : Spectrogram analysis on connected speech   
16 | 12/15 |  Speech Perception _Reading_ : Chapter 12, Chapter 13  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Language Demonstrations: 10%
Homework Assignments: 35%
Term Project/Presentation: 30%
Final Exam: 25%
_Notes on Assignments_ :
_**Language Demonatrations**_ : The class will present a demonstration of the phonetics of a foreign language, with handouts indicating correct phonetic symbols.
_**Homework Assignments**_ : These are designed to allow you to solidify your understanding of concepts discussed in class by using them to analyze new data, particularly, spectrograms. You may discuss the questions on the assignments with other class members or with the instructor, but you must write up your answers individually. In most cases you will have a week to do the assignment, and it will be due at the beginning of class on the due date. However, you should never skip class because your assignment is not completed; please see the instructor if you have occasional problems with due dates.
_**Term Projects**_ : Students will do original elicitation of phonetic data from a native speaker of a language which the student does not speak; alternatively your subject may be a child, or an adult with a language disorder. The paper will consist of an analysis of the subject’s phonetic system, and should include acoustic analyses done in the Phonetics Lab (i.e. spectrograms, F0 points, etc.)
_**Final Exam**_ : Two-hour exam held during finals week; comprehensive, open book/note.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
1. Reetz, Henning and Allard Jongman. 2009. Phonetics: Transcription, Production, Acoustics and Perception. Wiley-Blackwell. [Required]
2. John. C. Catford. 2010. A Practical Introduction to Phonetics. Oxford University Press.
3. Ladefoged, Peter and Keith Johnson. 2015. A Course in Phonetics. Cengage Learning.
4. Johnson, Keith. 2003. Acoustic and Auditory Phonetics. Blackwell Publishing.
5. Bickford, Anita & Rick Floyd. 2006. Articulatory Phonetics: Tools for Analyzing the World’s Languages. International Academic Bookstore.
6. Handbook of the international phonetic association: A guide to the use of the IPA.
Note: Readings and exercises out of books are to be prepared prior to the lecture for which they are assigned.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Tue 14:30-17:00 (By appointment)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
