國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：俄烏衝突研究
#####  Course Name: Special Topics on the Russia-Ukraine Conflict
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：560877001 Course No.560877001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_15_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：中東亞一、中東亞二 Course Department:Master Program in Middle Eastern and Central Asian Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：康世昊 Instructor: KANG SHIH-HAO 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
The ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict represents a defining moment in 21st-century history, offering the world unprecedented opportunities to advance theoretical understanding, develop innovative methodologies, and contribute to knowledge that will inform policy and practice for decades to come. With such a “critical historical moment”, however, we have learned not only the mass media but also many scholars analysis have continously failed to access critical information so to give insightful views on the undergoing international unrest and international power conflict normally invisible during peacetime. In face of all kinds of biased war infirmation and propaganda, this war therefore provides a unique laboratory but also a challenging task for understanding how political institutions, identities, and relationships stage warfare under extreme duress. This course aims to revisit selected aspects of researches on the Russia-Ukraine conflict, through class discussion and then to develop an insightful approach for understanding the origins of geopolitical tensions, conflict prevention, humanitarian response, and international security. Hopefully the course participants can contribute to evidence-based policy-making and humanitarian practice, providing further research with broader social impact beyond academic circles.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 專業創新
  * B. 人文關懷
  * C. 國際視野
  * D. 具備中東中亞政經文社整合知識


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Firstly, students to learn how recent scholarship emphasise the importance of Realist and Liberal theories provide competing explanations for the conflict’s origins and development. Comparative analyses using these frameworks help illuminate different aspects of the war’s causes and conduct.  
Secondly, through learning the phenomenological approaches to own valuable knowledge for studying critical thinking in academic institutions during the war; in addition, students are also expected to check on qualitative thematic analysis has been employed to understand coping strategies among key findings.  
Thirdly, theoretical frameworks such as constructivist approaches offer insights into identity formation and perception-based motivations in the conflict. This theoretical framework emphasises how Russian and Ukrainian identities have shaped the war’s trajectory.  
In addition, students may experience how a proper politico-sociological analysis in understanding the war’s impact on Ukrainian society. Research methodologies include semi-structured interviews with displaced populations, and survey research examining social attitudes during wartime.  
In general, developing expertise in Russia-Ukraine conflict studies positions young scholars at the forefront of an emerging and important academic specialisation. As the conflict’s implications continue to unfold over decades, scholars with deep understanding of its insightful dimensions will be increasingly valuable to academic institutions, policy organizations, and international agencies.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
|  Week |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assighment |  Teaching Activities and Homework  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|  1 |  Introduction | 
  * Reading: Serhii Plokhy. 2024. The Russo-Ukrainian War: The Return of History. W. W. Norton & Company

|  Share the motivation of conducting the course and explain the anticipated assignment and task for the participants to realise the potential benefits of taking this course |   
2 |  War narratives Part 1 |  Vladimir Putin. 2021. On the Historical Unity of Russians and Ukrainians. https://en.kremlin.ru/events/president/news/66181 |  Review the varieties of key war narratives  
3 |  War narratives II |  Julia Davis. 2024. In Their Own Words: How Russian Propagandists Reveal Putin’s Intentions. ibidem Press.  |  Discussion  
4 |  Russian Nationalism I |  Marlene Laruelle. 2019. Russian Nationalism: Imaginaries, Doctrines & Political Battlefields. Routledge. |  Review the official line of Russian nationalism and the role of its propaganda   
5 |  Russian Nationalism II |  VICIOM https://wciom.com/about |  Study the foundation and impacts of Russian nationalism on the society and the public opinions  
6 |  Ukrainian nationalism I |  Hryb. 2020. Understanding Contemporary Ukrainian and Russian Nationalism. ibidem Press |  Study the narratives, statements and practice of Ukrainian nationalism  
7 |  Ukrainian nationalism II |  Andreas Umland. 2017. The Ukrainian government’s Memory Institute against the West. New Eastern Europe. 2017/March/07.  Ukrainian extreme nationalist channels on social media |  Demonstrate Ukrainian nationalist channels on Telegram then to review the influence of Ukrainian nationalism on regional conflicts  
8 |  Film on Donbass |  Donbass (Anne-Laure Bonnel, 2016) /  Donbas (Sergei Loznitsa, 2018) |  Demonstrate how to conduct a survey then student to give their ideas and practice  
9 |  Midterm Presentation |  Oral presentation |  Students to give a 20-min oral presentation on selected topics  
10 |  The challenging task to current studies |  O’Loughlin, J., Sasse, G and Toal, G. 2024. What Political Status Did the Donbas Want? Survey Evidence on the Eve of Russia’s Full-Scale Invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Geopolitics, 1-26. |  Nationalism, Patriotism, the origin and and state narratives then Russians attitude toward propaganda  
11 |  The theories of Geopolitics |  John Mearsheimer. 2022. The Causes and Consequences of the Ukraine War.  Jade McGlynn. 2023. Russia’s War. Polity |  Firstly to introduce some theoretical works which give another view of the current conflict; secondly require the students to provide their feedbacks  
12 |  Guest Speech |  TBD |  Learn to define and understand the success and failure of and its latest impact  
13 |  Leadership, regime and war |  Mikhail Zygar. 2023. War and Punishment: Putin, Zelensky and the Path to Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine. Scribner. |  Understanding the roles of governance and the leadership on forging the war  
14 |  The construction and consumption of war: images | 
  * Volodymyr Kulyk. 2019. Memory and Language: Different Dynamics in the Two Aspects of Identity Politics in Post-Euromaidan Ukraine. Nationalities Papers: The Journal of Nationalism and Ethnicity. Cambridge University Press.
  * Volodymyr Kulyk. 2023. What Have We Learned about Ethnonational Identities in Ukraine. Nationalities Papers. 
  * David Marples. 2015. Ethnic and Social Composition of Ukraine’s Regions and Voting Patterns in Ukraine. E-International Relations. https://www.e-ir.info/pdf/54608
  * Halyna Mokrushyna. 2014. The challenge of reconciling Donbas and the Euromaidan movement in Ukraine[Conference presentation]. ‘‘United Ukraine? The Euromaidan revolution and the Donbas rebellion in domestic and international perspectives’’. December 4, University of Ottawa, Canada. https://bit.ly/3yaa8QR

|  Explain why the readings selected then to assign group reading task. Continue the group reading presentation for the following week  
15 |  The construction and consumption of war: languages |  As described above / Submit the term paper before the indicated deadline  
16 |  War and Media |  Group task |  To discover and discuss the patterns of misinformation, disinformation and misrepresentation  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_10%_
####  其他： Others: 延伸閱讀資料程度 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Participation activeness: 30%
Mid-term presentation (oral): 30%
Final presentation (oral briefing 5 min) and essay submission (4500~9000 words) 40%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
No assigned textbook. Course students receive a full list of suggested reading materials. 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:僅限使用於討論或問題形成，用於作答的部分將不予計分。 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/08/12 Course plan 2.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
TBD
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
NA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
