國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：選修英文：閱讀與口語訓練
#####  Course Name: English Elective: Reading & Oral Training
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：599793001 Course No.599793001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_35_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中心 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center/B/0 
  * 授課老師：蘇靖棻 Instructor: SU JING-FEN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
_Reading and Oral Training_ is a one-semester course for high-intermediate to advanced learners of English. The course, which is conducted in English, is designed to acclimate students to using English as a tool for advanced communication. During the course, students will enhance their reading and speaking skills through lectures, pair/group discussions, oral presentations, role-play, writing assignments, watching films, and other in-class activities. Students will become familiar with different communication styles and methods of organization for handling discussion and presentation of contemporary issues through a combination of reading materials and speaking exercises on various subjects from different sources, such as novels, news media, blog posts, and academic articles. Students will also learn to summarize texts, analyze structure (through outlining), compare and contrast, and give opinions, which can be extended to more advanced reading skills, e.g. identifying facts and opinions, and making inferences in class.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The main goals of this course are to enhance students’ reading and oral fluency through reading texts of various genres related to course topics and then participating in discussions and giving formal presentations.
Learning outcomes:
By the end of the semester, those who have satisfactorily completed the course requirements will have:
  * developed the ability to read authentic texts of various subjects in an efficient manner;
  * sharpened their oral skills to confidently express opinions in both formal and informal contexts, and to analyze and critique the oral communication of oneself and others;
  * learned to organize and deliver formal presentations in front of an audience
  * demonstrated skills such as appropriate selection of topics and materials, clear organization, and the ability to evaluate and synthesize materials from diverse sources and then integrate multiple perspectives into oral presentations;
  * developed their abilities to write summaries, reflections and responses on the assigned readings; and
  * improved their ability to listen effectively, using critical and reflective thinking when responding to communication events such as the teacher’s lectures, classmates’ speeches, and discussions with peers. 


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week (Date)** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course overview | 
  * Introduction to the course
  * Introduction to Moodle, Zuvio and Quizlet

| 
  * Watch video clips on Moodle (Review of summary writing and oral presentation skills)
  * **Homework:** finish reading Part 1 of _For One More Day_ (pp. 1-34); prepare for Quiz 1

  
2 |  Culture and People | 
  * _For One More Day_ , Part 1 (pp. 1-34)
  * Magazine article: “In Search of the Afghan Girl”

| 
  * Quiz 1
  * **Homework:** finish reading Part 2 of _For One More Day_ (pp. 35-69); complete 1st written assignment (Reading circles role sheet 1)

  
3 |  Family | 
  * _For One More Day_ , Part 2 (pp. 35-69)

| 
  * Reading circles discussion 1
  * **Homework:** finish reading Part 3 of _For One More Day_ (pp. 70-100); prepare for Quiz 2; brainstorm and post topic of individual oral presentation on Moodle

  
4 |  Stories of Survival | 
  * _For One More Day_ , Part 3 (pp. 70-100)
  * News articles on “Survival in the Andes”

| 
  * Quiz 2
  * **Homework:** finish reading Part 4 of _For One More Day_ (pp. 101-133); complete the 2nd written assignment (Reading circles role sheet 2)

  
5 |  Family | 
  * _For One More Day_ , Part 4 (pp. 101-133)

| 
  * Reading circles discussion 2
  * **Homework:** finish reading Part 5 of _For One More Day_ (pp. 134-163); prepare for Quiz 3; write and submit draft of individual oral presentation on Moodle

  
6 |  Success | 
  * _For One More Day_ , Part 5 (pp. 134-163)
  * Oprah Winfrey’s speech, “Oprah talks to graduates about feelings, failure and finding happiness”

| 
  * Quiz 3
  * **Homework:** finish reading Part 6 of _For One More Day_ (pp. 164-197); complete the 3rd written assignment (Reading circles role sheet 3);

  
7 |  Family | 
  * _For One More Day_ , Part 6 (pp. 164-197)

| 
  * Reading circles discussion 3
  * **Homework:** rehearse your oral presentation with your PPT

  
8 |  Presentations | 
  * **Individual Oral Presentations I** on recommending your favorite book

| 
  * Peer evaluation and feedback

  
9 |  Presentations | 
  * **Individual Oral Presentations II** on recommending your favorite book

| 
  * Peer evaluation and feedback
  * **Homework:** finish reading Part 1 of _Five People You Meet in Heaven_ , Part 1 (pp. 1-31); prepare for Quiz 4

  
10 |  Autobiography | 
  * _Five People You Meet in Heaven_ , Part 1 (pp. 1-31)
  * Excerpts from Yeonmi Park’s _In Order to Live: A North Korean Girl’s Journey to Freedom_

| 
  * Quiz 4
  * **Homework:** finish reading _FPYM_ , Part 2: “The First Person” (pp. 32-55); complete the 4th written assignment (Reading circles role sheet 4)

  
11 |  Life and Death | 
  * _FPYM_ , Part 2: “The First Person” (pp. 32-55)

| 
  * Reading circles discussion 4
  * **Homework:** finish reading _FPYM_ , Part 3:

  
12 |  Near-death Experience | 
  * _FPYM_ , Part 3:
  * Excerpts from Anita Moorjani’s _Dying To Be Me: My Journey from Cancer, to Near Death, to True Healing_

| 
  * Quiz 5
  * **Homework:** finish reading _FPYM_ , Part 4:

  
13 |  Life and Death | 
  * _FPYM_ , Part 4:

| 
  * Reading circles discussion 5
  * **Homework:** finish reading _FPYM_ , Part 5:

  
14 |  Pursuing Dreams | 
  * _FPYM_ , Part 5:
  * Bel Pesce’s TED talk, “Five Ways to Kill Your Dreams”

| 
  * Quiz 6
  * **Homework:** finish reading _FPYM_ , Part 6:

  
15 |  Life and Death | 
  * _FPYM_ , Part 6:

| 
  * Reading circles discussion 6
  * **Homework:** Submit images of in-class writings to Moodle

  
16 |  Final Exam | 
  * **Final Exam**

|   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_25%_
####  講述 Lecture
_35%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class time will be devoted to activities that allow you to practice and interact in English. To successfully complete the course, you must prepare the assigned homework prior to class and actively participate in class discussions and pair/group work. Your final grades are determined by the following course components:
  * Attendance & participation: 15%
  * Quizzes: 10%
  * Oral presentations: 20%
  * Written assignments: 35%
  * Final Exam: 20%


**ASSIGNMENTS AND REQUIREMENTS**
**Attendance & participation**
You are required to attend classes regularly and on time. Absences (including sick leave and personal leave), tardiness, or early departure will damage your attendance grade. Contact me about your absence before class if you must miss class.
Your participation grade will be based on your homework preparation, and the contribution you make to the learning experience of others. Contribution includes your in-class questions to the instructor, insights and comments regarding class content, answers to the instructor’s questions, and reactions to other students’ contributions. Speaking up in class, either being called or voluntarily, will add points to your participation grade. Try to catch any opportunity to speak up in class to earn bonus points! Writing down your responses to questions on Moodle Discussion Boards will also add points to your participation grade.
**In-class quizzes**
Six pop quizzes based on assigned readings will be given in class. Missed quizzes CANNOT be made up.
**Written assignments**
Six written assignments based on the course readings will be assigned. The assignments may ask you to respond to key issues in the readings, write summaries, analyze passages or write short compositions comparing/contrasting cultural issues. You are required to complete the assignments at home by due dates so that you can join discussions in class. Late submission will lead to lower grades of your assignment. You need to upload the images of all the writings you have done for the course to Moodle regularly. I will use these files as reference when I evaluate your writing performance at the end of the semester.
**Oral presentations**
You will give two types of oral presentations during the semester:
  * In-class group discussions: In these discussions, you will share opinions, discuss questions brought up by the instructor or your classmates, and/or present your written assignment work.
  * Individual oral presentation during midterm exam week: You will give a 5-7 minute formal presentation recommending your favorite book to the class. More detailed guidelines for this assignment can be seen on our Moodle course page.


See the attachment for the grading rubric for the individual oral presentation.
**Final Exam**
The Final Exam consists of written responses to critical thinking questions based on lecture content and assigned readings in the course throughout the semester.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  * 2 Novels by Mitch Albom: _For One More Day_ ; _The Five People You Meet in Heaven_
  * Supplementary readings: Several articles from news and magazines will be posted on Moodle.
  * Resources:


VoiceTube: https://tw.voicetube.com
YouTube: www.youtube.com
BBC Learning English: http://www.bbc.co.uk/learningenglish
TED talks: https://www.ted.com/talks
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:修課學生可以使用 AI 工具輔助學習與完成作業，但不鼓勵直接複製貼上 AI 生成的內容，因為這樣對於提升英文能力的幫助有限。 若在作業中使用了任何 AI 工具，請務必在繳交的作業中註明所使用的工具名稱，並附上使用紀錄的截圖作為佐證資料，以確保作業的透明度與學術誠信。 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Moodle: http://moodle.nccu.edu.tw/
Zuvio: https://www.zuvio.com.tw/student
Quizlet: https://quizlet.com/latest

```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office: Room 737, Research Building (研究大樓737室)
Office Hours: by appointment
Tel: 02-29393091 ext. 88121
E-mail: jfsu@nccu.edu.tw
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
