國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：選修英文：職場溝通
#####  Course Name: English Elective: Workplace Communication
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：599796001 Course No.599796001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_35_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中心 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center/B/0 
  * 授課老師：賴宇彤 Instructor: LAI YU-TUNG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四78E Session: thu16-19


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course will provide an overview of the communication skills in the business world. All the learning activities for each lesson will give students the opportunities to practice not only the speaking skill, but also the presentation skill. Ultimately, the students are expected to apply the knowledge in their daily life situations. Since the class will be conducted in an interactive teaching method, the students will be grouped to participate in pairs or small teams in order to complete the assigned projects.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of this course, students should be able to  
1. Improve the communication skill as well as learn the expertise in business field.  
2. Develop the presentation skill for project-based language learning purposes.  
3. Apply the English skill and business knowledge in the daily life situations.  

##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Topic** |  **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **Teaching Activities and Homework** |   
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course Overview |  Self-Introduction |  Detective game |   
2 |  Unit 1-Building a personal brand |  Getting professional advice |  Listening & Discussion |   
3 |  Unit 1-Doing personal branding the right way |  Creating a resume |  Vocabulary & Reading |   
4 |  Unit 2-Making business travel easy |  Preparing for a business trip |  Speaking activity |   
5 |  Unit 2-An airport announcement |  Pack right, travel light |  Listening & Discussion |   
6 |  Unit 3-Supercharing your business |  Talking about the cloud |  Vocabulary & Reading |   
7 |  Unit 3-Advertising a software platform |  Making comparisons and decisions |  Speaking activity  |   
8 |  Unit 4-Negotiating your value |  Negotiating a raise |  Handout / Worksheet  |   
9 |  Mid-term exam |  Assigning group presentation |  Research the topic |   
10 |  Unit 5-Knowing business customs & etiquette  |  Doing business abroad |  Listening & Discussion |   
11 |  Unit 5- Providing advice for doing international business |  Customs around the globe |  Group discussion |   
12 |  Unit 6-E-commerce | Social media on the rise | Speaking activity |   
13 |  Unit 7-Doing business right |  Business ethics |  Listening & Discussion |   
14 |  Unit 8-Developing your own business |  Choosing the right career path |  Vocabulary & Reading |   
15 |  Final Exam |  Rehearsal of Final Presentation |  Assignment - Case study  |   
16 |  Group Presentation |  Oral presentation |  Feedback of presentation |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class time will be devoted to activities that allow you to practice and interact in English. To successfully complete the course, you must prepare the assigned homework prior to class and, while in class actively participate in discussions and pair/group work. Your final grades are determined by the following course components:
Midterm: 20%
Group presentation: 20 %
Writing assignments: Case study report 10%
Writing assignments: Self-Introduction 10%
Attendance: 10%
Participation: 10%
Final: 20%
**_Participation_**
Your participation grade will be based on your attendance, homework preparation, and the contribution you make to the learning experience of others. Contribution includes your in-class questions to the instructor, insights and comments regarding class content, answers to the instructor's questions, and reactions to other students' contributions. Habitual lateness and unauthorized phone use will jeopardize your grades! A leave of absence should be noticed beforehand or soon after the lecture with proper documentation. Personal leave, especially traveling to another place is highly probibited during the exam/presentation period!
**_Oral presentations_**
You will give an individual oral report and a group presentation during the semester. For the individual report, you will tell a 3-minute personal anecdote. For the group presentation, you and three other students will report on a current event. The presentation should be approximately 15 minutes, followed by a 5-minute discussion. Each group should meet with the instructor two weeks prior to their presentation to discuss their topic and present their outline. Following the presentation, they will submit a group written report. More details will be provided in class.
**_Written assignments_**
In addition to the periodic in-class and take-home writing exercises, there will be three written assignments based on the online learning materials for the course. In each assignment, you will respond to the writing prompts regarding a cross-cultural issue. Your papers should show you have completed and thought seriously and critically about the readings and videos provided for you. You are also encouraged to research the topic and cite your sources. The grading rubric for the written assignments is available on the class website.
**_Examinations_**
All materials, including the readings, handouts, and information provided in class will potentially be included on mid-term and final exams. The mid-term exam is a written test, and the final exam contains a written test and a speaking test. The written tests include vocabulary/grammar questions, a listening/reading section, and short writing tasks. The speaking test requires you to answer two or more questions, each question for two minutes. The instructor will evaluate your ability to respond to the questions appropriately and to speak for an extended period of time without hesitation, deviation or repetition. The grading rubric for the speaking test is available on the class website. No make-up exams will be given unless you have received the instructor’s permission in advance.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Textbook: English Works for the Office 3
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Research Building 410
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
