國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：選修英文：英文寫作
#####  Course Name: English Elective: Essay Writing
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：599795011 Course No.599795011


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中心 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center/B/0 
  * 授課老師：陳彩虹 Instructor: CHEN TSAI-HUNG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is an introduction to academic writing and literacy through the fundamentals of essay writing with an emphasis on genre knowledge and audience awareness. The course, which is conducted in English, incorporates lectures and discussion sessions making class time full of activity. Writing assignments provide students with opportunities to practice writing skills while exploring current issues through their own interests and experiences. Students learn ways to approach writing assignments and go through the process of writing an academic essay in English. An assigned textbook is used as a guide, but other materials and references are available on the course Moodle.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
In this course, students will practice writing as a process of invention and revision that anyone can master with effort. The course starts with a review of basic paragraph structure before moving on to common types of essays including cause-effect, comparison, and argument essays. Students will also learn to use outside sources and cite them correctly. Overall, the course aims to give students a good foundation in English composition and a practical set of writing tools.
By the end of the semester, students who have successfully completed the course requirements will be able to write thoughtful and well-organized essays. They will have a solid understanding of key components of academic writing, including organization, thesis statements, and clarity of ideas. Additionally,
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**The following schedule will be adjusted to accommodate the progress of the class.**  
---  
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course orientation | 
  * Introduction to the course
  * Pre-course writing

| 
  * Explore the resources on Moodle

  
2 |  Exploring the Essay (1/2) | 
  * Unit 1 pp. 2-37
  * Essay structure
  * Writing the introduction
  * Free writing #1

| 
  * Write hooks and thesis statements
  * Read Essays 1.1-1.4

  
3 |  Exploring the Essay (2/2) | 
  * Unit 1 pp. 2-37
  * Writing the conclusion
  * Free writing #2

| 
  * Parallelism exercises
  * Write a draft for a classification essay topic

  
4 |  Classification Essays | 
  * Writing the body
  * Developing a classification essay
  * Free writing #3

| 
  * Revise and submit classification essay

  
5 |  Cause-Effect Essays (1/2) | 
  * Analyze your essay and peer review
  * Unit 2 pp. 38-67
  * Free writing #4

| 
  * Write a draft for a cause-effect essay

  
6 |  Cause-Effect Essays (2/2) | 
  * Unit 2 pp. 38-67
  * Free writing #5

| 
  * Continue to work on cause-effect essay

  
7 |  Writing concisely | 
  * Unit 2 pp. 38-67
  * Free writing #6

| 
  * Revise and submit cause-effect essay

  
8 |  Comparison Essays (1/2) | 
  * Analyze your essay and peer review
  * Unit 3 pp. 68-95
  * Free writing #7

| 
  * Write a draft for a comparison essay

  
9 |  Comparison Essays (2/2) | 
  * Unit 3 pp. 68-95
  * Free writing #8

| 
  * Contine to work on comparison essay

  
10 |  Grammar session | 
  * Adverb Clauses
  * Free writing #9

| 
  * Revise and submit comparison Essay

  
11 | Argument Essays (1/2) | 
  * Analyze your essay and peer review
  * Using and citing sources (pp. 184-185)
  * Free writing #10

| 
  * Develop three arguments and two counterarguments with refutations for a claim

  
12 |  Argument Essays (2/2) | 
  * Unit 4 pp. 96-123
  * Decide topic options
  * Free writing #11

| 
  * Write a draft for an argument essay

  
13 |  Using Outside Sources | 
  * Unit 4 pp. 96-123
  * Discuss arguments, counterarguments and refutations
  * Free writing #12

| 
  * Revise and submit argument essay

  
14 |  Hedging | 
  * Analyze your essay and peer review

| 
  * Hedging exercises

  
15 |  Logical Fallacies | 
  * Assessing claims and evaluating evidence

| 
  * Prepare for final exam

  
16 |  Final exam | 
  * Exam

| 
  * N/A

  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
All materials, including the written text, handouts, and any information spoken in class or written on the board, are expected to be reflected in your work. Take notes, and study the textbook and handouts. Keep all of the work you do during the course until after the final grades have been announced. Your final grades will be determined by the following course components:
  * Attendance & participation (discussion, peer review, free writing activity, etc.): 20%
  * Writing assignments (papers, learning reports): 45%
  * Final exam (including timed writing): 35%


**ATTENDANCE, PUNCTUALITY & ASSIGNMENT POLICIES**
  * Attendance and punctuality are required for all class sessions.
  * Exams cannot be made up or rescheduled unless you provide documentation of a true emergency.


**LEARNING TASKS & ASSIGNMENTS**
**Free writing**
You will compose a timed writing response to a given prompt in class in most weeks. These activities will be held at the start of class, so make sure to be on time and ready. Latecomers will not be given extra time.
**Writing assignments**
In addition to the free writing activities and other miscellaneous writing tasks in class, you will write four major assignments, including a classification essay, a cause-effect essay, a comparison essay, and an argument essay. You will develop each of these essays over several weeks' time. Topic options will be provided by the instructor, but you are welcomed to use your own topics with the instructor's approval. Preferable topics are those addressing a social, political, cultural, or environmental issue of concern to Taiwan and those related to NCCU.
When writing the essays, you are expected to apply the writing skills and language learned in class. While your existing English proficiency carries some weight in the instructor's grading of your essays, to what extent and how effectively you use the knowledge gained in the course matter most in the grading. A grading rubric for the writing assignments is available on the course Moodle.
**Presentation**
You will give a ten-minute presentation on a topic related to writing, such as your experience of using a writing resource or participating in a writing workshop, and tips on improving an aspect of writing. All presentation slides should be uploaded to Moodle.
**Final exam**
The final exam is an open book exam. You are allowed to bring the textbook, handouts and notes, but not dictionaries, into the exam room. The exam tests your ability to apply what you have learned throughout the course. It includes questions on aspects of the rhetorical form and grammar points by asking you to rewrite sentences, complete and edit passages, and write a composition simulating a standardized exam.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Course materials**
  * Great Writing: Great Essays 4 (FIFTH EDITION), National Geographic Learning/Cengage Learning
  * Supplementary materials


**Resources**
  * Oshima, Alice (2014). Longman Academic Writing Series 4: Paragraphs to Essays, Fifth Edition
  * Dictionary/Thesaurus
  * OXFORD Collocation Dictionary
  * The Corpus of Contemporary American English (COCA)
  * How to Email Your Professor
  * Purdue University Online Writing Lab (OWL)
  * No One Writes Alone (MIT video on peer review)
  * Quick Guide on Citation Style for Chinese, Japanese and Korean Sources (APA Examples)
  * 'Good Grammar' Comes from Privilege, Not Virtue
  * Six Vintage-Inspired Animations on Critical Thinking
  * Quizlet: 15 Logical fallacies flashcards


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
禁止使用:針對違規使用AI工具代寫作業的情況，依其嚴重性給予相應的教育措施。 Prohibited Uses
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Moodle: https://moodle.nccu.edu.tw/
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Thursday and Friday mornings  
Office: 250614 (Room 614, Research Building)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
