國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：選修英文：職場溝通
#####  Course Name: English Elective: Workplace Communication
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：599796021 Course No.599796021


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_35_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中心 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center/B/0 
  * 授課老師：毛佩琦 Instructor: MAO PEI-CHI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三234 Session: wed09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
  * 本課程因課程與求職、職場相關，較建議大三、大四學生選修。
  * 本課程每堂點名。同學無須一一來信詢問，請直接加入遞補名單由系統遞補至滿班為止。


_Workplace Communication_ is a one-semester 3-credit-hour course designed for high-intermediate/advanced students of English as a foreign language. This is _not_ a course that aims to teach students business knowledge. Rather, it is designed to allow students to transform their English language knowledge into communicative skills necessary for the workplace in any profession. 
Traditionally, “English at the workplace” often means “business English” which involves business terminology and business correspondence. However, as we embrace constant changes at work in the 21st century, particular content knowledge will soon be outdated. What is needed, therefore, is adaptability in cross-cultural contexts, as well as productive language skills for the ever-changing workplace. In this course, students are expected to use the English language to teleconference, to analyze case studies, to conduct individual or group presentations, to write job-hunting documents, and to compose formal emails and case reports. It is hoped that, through the vehicle of English language, as well as the exposure to the finer points of international workplace etiquette, students are able to, not only sharpen their language skills, but also develop a proper mindset and cross-cultural awareness that are essential to one’s success in any job. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The primary goal of this course is to allow students to maximize their English listening, speaking, and writing abilities while exploring a wide range of topics from corporate entertaining to management styles, from brand management to business innovation, from business ethics to cross-cultural communication. All topics have been specially chosen to remain current and can be covered in any order. Class will be conducted entirely in English.
**Learning outcomes:**
The primary goal of this course is to allow students to maximize their English listening, speaking, and writing abilities while exploring a wide range of topics from corporate entertaining to management styles, from brand management to business innovation, from business ethics to cross-cultural communication. All topics have been specially chosen to remain current and can be covered in any order. Class will be conducted entirely in English. **Learning outcomes:** Upon completion of the course, students are expected to have:
  1. learned the skills to socialize in English for different occasions,
  2. learned the etiquette of teleconferencing in English,
  3. upgraded their English presentation skills,
  4. broadened their knowledge of cross-cultural communication,
  5. learned how to write a resume and cover letter in English,
  6. learned how to write a case study summary in English,
  7. learned how to write formal emails for different purposes in English, and
  8. developed skills in working with a group on an assigned project.

  
---  
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |   
---|---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction | 
  * Socializing and connecting with people
  * Tips for interviews

|  Worksheet; group discussion |   
2 |  Office Issue; arranging meetings | 
  * Telephoning expressions
  * Office supplies 
  * Asking for leave
  * Dealing with difficult customers

|  Listening task; worksheet |   
3 |  Arranging Meetings | 
  * How to run effective meetings
  * Presenting ideas at meetings
  * Listening task: _How to save the world (or at least yourself) from bad meetings_

|  Listening task and group discussion (coming up with a product name) |   
4 |  Closing the deal | 
  * Convincing tactics
  * Sell the gain and sell the pain

|  Listening task and mini role play |   
5 |  Improving presentation skills | 
  * Presentation Techniques
  * Dress for Success
  * Tips on Workplace Attire

|  Listening tasks; worksheet |   
6 |  Branding and marketing | 
  * Brainstorming tips
  * Product placement in Korean dramas
  * Starbucks SWOT Analysis

|  Listening tasks; worksheet |   
7 |  Branding and marketing | 
  * How social media influence marketing and sales
  * How the viral Ocean Spray TikTok video transformed a 90-year-old company overnight
  * Memorable commercials
  * Group discussion and commercial filming 

|  Filming a commercial |   
8 |  Student presentation | 
  * Individual presentation and feedback

|  Presentation |   
9 |  Midterm quiz & Student presentation | 
  * Midterm quiz 
  * Individual presentation

|  Midterm quiz & Student presentation |   
10 |  Cross-cultural awareness | 
  * Cultural tips in different countries
  * Cross-cultural discussions
  * How to write an inquiry/reply email

|  Assignment 1: Writing an email to your instructor to discuss your cross-cultural insights  |   
11 |  Cross-cultural awareness | 
  * Meeting and greeting foreign guests
  * Mastering dining etiquette
  * Mini role play: taking your foreign guest to dinner

|  Listening tasks; mini role play |   
12 |  Negotiations | 
  * Creating a win-win situation
  * What to do before, during and after a negotiation
  * Video: _Negotiation: Getting What You Want_
  * Writing a complaint email

|  Listening task; group discussion; writing skills |   
13 |  Negotiations | 
  * Negotiating your job offer
  * CNN business article on negotiation
  * Negotiation game

|  Listening task; reading activity |   
14 |  Job Hunting | 
  * Final review
  * Job interview techniques
  * Video: 30 Seconds to Impress
  * How to write a cover letter and resume

|  Assignment 2: cover letter and resume |   
15 |  Final exam; interview | 
  * Listening, reading, vocabulary and writing sections

|  |   
16 |  Group Interview  | 
  * Mock Job interview

|  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
You are expected to: - participate _actively_ in all in-class activities and discussions; - attend each class __and__ be on time; - deliver a presentation; - submit two written assignments; - take the midterm quiz and the final exam; - attend a job interview. Your final grades are determined by the following course components:
  * Attendance and participation (class activities and group discussions): 20%
  * 1st written assignment: 8%
  * 2nd written assignment: 10%
  * Student presentation: 15% 
  * Midterm Quiz: 12%
  * Final exam: 25%
  * Job interview: 10%
  * **Students who attend the class every week will be awarded an extra point added to their total score.**

**ASSIGNMENTS AND REQUIREMENTS** **_Attendance_** Attendance will be taken each week. Habitual lateness and unauthorized cell phone use may impact your attendance record. If you need to take a leave of absence, please inform the instructor via email in advance or promptly afterward. **_Participation_** Class participation refers to your active involvement in the class activities including your participation in group discussions, insights and comments regarding class content, responses to the instructor’s questions, and reactions to other students’ contributions. **_Assignments_** In addition to the in-class writing exercises, you will complete two written assignments: (1) an email about a cross-cultural discussion, (2) a personal resume and a cover letter. The email is based on one of the cross-cultural discussions conducted in class. For the resume and cover letter, you will be asked to respond to an authentic, self-chosen job advertisement. Even with limited work experience, you are encouraged to elaborate on your strengths by closely examining your academic background and relevant experiences. All written assignments are to be submitted before the due dates.  **_Presentation_** You will deliver an presentation on a workplace-related topic. Your presentation should have a duration of approximately 6-7 minutes. Detailed guidelines and grading rubrics will be given to you in class. **_Job interview_** The interview will take place during week 16. You will participate in the interview alongside your teammates, at the designated time slot assigned to you. During the interview, you will be randomly asked 2 questions from the list of "commonly asked job interview questions", as well as 1 question related to the course materials. It is expected that you speak for 1 to 2 minutes to answer EACH question. You will be provided with a compiled list of questions in advance. **_Final Exam_** The final exam is a written exam. It may cover all materials presented throughout the semester, including the vocabulary list, readings, handouts, and video exercises provided in class. No make-up exam will be given unless you obtain the instructor’s permission in advance. NOTE: Students are prohibited from utilizing AI to generate assignments; however, they are permitted to employ AI for proofreading purposes and correcting grammatical errors. Detailed instructions regarding the permissible use of AI will be provided during class.  
---  
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
There is no required textbook for this course. YouTube videos will be used for listening tasks, and worksheets will be distributed in class. Abridged PDF files will be uploaded to Moodle each week for review.
Supplementary materials:
Mascull, Bill. (2018). _Business Vocabulary in Use Advanced._ Cambridge University Press.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Students are permitted to use AI for proofreading and correcting grammatical errors. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Recommended self-learning websites:
CNN Business: https://edition.cnn.com/business/perspectives
Business-BBC: https://www.bbc.com/news/business
Fortune: https://fortune.com/
Business Insider: https://www.businessinsider.com/
Indeed Careers: https://www.indeed.jobs/

```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office: Research Building, Room 713
Office hours: By appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
