國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：選修英文：學術聽說訓練
#####  Course Name: English Elective: Academic Listening & Speaking
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：599794011 Course No.599794011


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_7_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中心 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center/B/0 
  * 授課老師：黃杏妃 Instructor: HUANG HSING-FEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12 


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course, which is conducted in English, is designed for high-intermediate to advanced English learners. It is based on a content-based syllabus, utilizing lectures on topics from different academic disciplines and related reading materials. The authentic content provides both a context for the practice of important language skills and a basis for the exploration of high-interest topics for learners. The course covers diverse issues and integrates vocabulary, grammar, listening and speaking skills necessary for academic success. Throughout the semester, students are encouraged to improve their academic listening and speaking ability by listening to lectures and participating in discussions, as well as practicing note-taking and summarizing.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course will help students to
- build discipline- or topic-related vocabulary
- improve listening skills both in everyday and academic settings
- develop learning strategies and study skills for academic success
- reinforce academic discussion and communicative skills
- develop effective note-taking and summarizing skills
- deliver informative talks / presentation in today’s academic and professional world
- expand critical thinking
- be aware of cultural differences and similarities
**_Learning Outcomes for Lecture Comprehension and Note-taking_**
By the end of the course, students will be able to:
- predict lecture content and organization
- listen for the lecturer’s main points and for the general organizational framework
- make guesses when information is missed
- evaluate and decide what is and is not important during a lecture
- note key words, and use abbreviations and symbols
- organize information and visually represent the relationship between ideas
- note most numbers and statistics
**_Learning Outcomes for Informative Talks & Presentation_**
By the end of the course, while presenting, students will be able to:
- consider the audience and have clear objectives
- have a clear structure and link the parts together
- address academic issues successfully with a variety of resources
- consider the timing
- speak clearly at the right speed
- use appropriate language
- maintain eye contact with the audience
- use body language effectively
- appear confident and positive
- make clear visual aids to support messages
- use the equipment professionally
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  |   
---|---|---|---|---|---  
|   
1 |  Class Orientation |  -Course Introduction  -Assessment (rubrics)/ Moodle |  Ice-breaker activity |  |   
2 |  Happiness  |  -Listening strategies & Note-Taking Basics [Listening] _Happiness lecture_ -Presentation skills |  -Grouping [Listening] _Names_ [Speaking] _The art of joke-telling_ Informative Talk (IT) Practice |  |   
3 |  **Psychology:** Birth Order & Memory |  -Presentation skills [Listening] _Birth order_(comparisons & contrast) (using a list/chart) |  Quiz #1 [TED TALK] _TED's secret to great public speaking_ [Listening] _Memory_ **_IT begins_** |  |   
4 |  **Psychology:** Stress **Education:** East vs. West |  [TED TALK] _How to make stress your friend_ (using symbols/abbreviation) [Reading] _Are our kids tough enough? Chinese School_ **(** note-taking**)** |  **Individual Presentation _(IP) begins_** [TED]_Do schools kill creativity?_**(** note-taking**)** |  |   
5 |  **Education:** Multiple Intelligences |  [Listening] _Multiple Intelligences_ (numbered lists & non-verbal signals)  [TED TALK]_Build a School in the Cloud_ |  [L&S] _Is the Internet making us bad readers?_ (tone/stress keywords/ defend a position)  **Group Presentation (GP) #1** [Worksheet] Innovations |  |   
7 |  **Technology:** Artificial Intelligence & Innovations |  [Listening] _Intelligent Machines_ [Discussion] AI |  Quiz #2 [Speaking] Innovations |  |   
9 |  **Technology & Science:** Information Science |  [TED TALK] _Big data is better data_ (organize a presentation) |  [TED TALK] _Want to innovate? Become a "now-ist"_ |  |   
10 |  **Science** |  _The science of love_ (unfamiliar words) Introduction of TOEFL simulated (speaking) test |  **GP#2** |  |   
11 |  [Workshop] |  Guest speaker [TBA] |  |  |   
12 |  Oral Training  (@ lab) |  TOEFL: Speaking practice TOEFL simulated (speaking) test |  Quiz #3 (speaking) |  |   
13 |  **Cross-cultural Communication:** Languages & Identity  |  [Listening] _Global English_ -Culture shock |  [TED] _Who am I? Think again_ |  |   
14 |  **Cross-cultural Communication:** Culture Shock |  [Sharing] culture shock experience |  [Board game] Taboo **GP#3** |  |   
15 |  **Cross-cultural Communication:** Stereotypes  |  [Listening] _Gender and Communication_ [Reading] _Science Gets the Last Laugh on Ethnic Jokes_ |  Quiz #4 [Stand-up comedy] accents **_IP ends_** |  |   
16 |  Final exam  (@ lab) |  Speaking + Listening tests |  |  |   
|  *Note. No class at Week# 6 (Oct.10 national holiday) *Note. No class at Week# 8 (Oct.24 make-up holiday) |   
|  |   
|  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**ATTENDANCE, PUNCTUALITY & ASSIGNMENT/EXAM POLICIES**
Attendance is important, and students are expected to come to class **ON TIME**! (Attendance/Lateness policy will be explained in the first class.) Students who are absent for more than  _half_ of total class hours without an appropriate reason will receive zero for both Attendance and Class Performance portions, and CAN**NOT** partake in the final exam. All required assignments must be submitted to the instructor before the due dates. Note that **NO** assignments will be accepted after the deadline. The quizzes CAN**NOT** be made up (except for sick leave), and **NO** make-up final exam will be given unless you have received the instructor’s permission in advance.
To successfully complete the course, you must participate in assigned activities and take quizzes and the final exam. Your final grade is determined by the following course components:
  * Participation: 20% (Attendance 10% + Class performance 10%)
  * Quizzes: 20%
  * Assignments: 20%
  * Presentations: 20% (group 10% + individual 10%)
  * Final exam: 20%


**_Participation_**
Your participation grade will be based on your attendance, homework preparation, and the
contribution you make to the learning experience of others. Contribution includes your questions to
the instructor, insights and comments regarding class content, answers to the instructor’s questions,
and reactions to other students’ contributions in class.
**_Quizzes_**
Throughout the semester, 4 quizzes will be given in class, including 3 listening quizzes and 1 speaking
task. The listening quizzes contain lecture listening, note-taking and comprehension questions,
and students are required to give their responses orally in the speaking task. More details will be
provided in class. 
**_Assignments_**
You will give **3** short Informative Talks (ITs) on topics discussed this semester (2 to your group
members and 1 to the whole class). Each IT focuses on a relevant subtopic of your choice, lasts  _five_
_minutes_ , and may include visual aids. Before the class, you need to upload the outline to the class
website. When you give your IT during class time, the other group members will then
practice note-taking strategies and give you feedback when the IT is finished. Note that your
feedback (e.g., notes and comments) will also need to be uploaded to the class website afterwards.
**NO** assignments will be accepted after  _the deadline_ _, which is the end of each unit_. Besides these IT assignments, you need to comment on other students' speaking task performance (Week #12) and give suggestions. More details will be
provided in class.
**_Presentations_**
You will give one Group Presentation (GP) and one Individual Presentation (IP). For the group
presentation, each group will report on an assigned topic. The presentation should last approximately
**20** minutes, followed by a **5** -minute class discussion. Before the presentation, each group needs to
_upload their PowerPoint slides_ to the class website. While presenting, each group will be evaluated by
the instructor as well as by their peers. For the individual presentation, each student will be assigned
by the instructor to give a 5-minute informative talk (on one of the chosen topics) with PowerPoint
presentation in front of the whole class. More details will be provided in class.
**_Final Exam_**
The final exam contains a  _listening_ test and an integrated  _speaking_ test. The listening test includes
lecture listening, note-taking, and comprehension questions. In the integrated speaking test, you will
be required to give your responses orally. You will need to demonstrate your ability to respond to
the questions clearly and coherently and the ability to accurately convey the information about what
you have read or listened to.
*** The grading rubrics for the group presentation/speaking test/note-taking exercise (attached below) will be available on the class website. http://moodle.nccu.edu.tw/
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Coursepack (To be distributed in class later)
To be selected from the following list:
  * References:


1. Beglar, D. & Murray, N. (2017):  _Contemporary Topics 3: 21st Century Skills for Academic Success._
(4th ed.) Pearson Education.
2. Bonesteel L. (2017):  _21 st Century Communication 3: Listening, Speaking, And Critical Thinking._
National Geographic Learning/ Cengage Learning.
3. Bonnesteel, L., Clements, P. & Curtis, J. (2020):  _Start Up 8._ Pearson Education.
4. Day, R. R., Shaules, J. & Yamanaka, J. (2009):  _Impact Issues 3_. Pearson Longman Asia ELT.
5. Dunkel, P. A. & Pialorsi, F. (2014):  _Listening & Notetaking Skills, Level 3_. (4th ed.) National 
Geographic Learning/ Cengage Learning.
6. Frazier, L. & Leeming, S. (2013):  _Lecture Ready 3_ (2nd ed.). Oxford University Press.
7. Jeffries, A., Lansford, L. & Barber, D. (2018):  _Perspectives 4_. National Geographic Learning/ 
Cengage Learning.
8. Kisslinger, E. (2017):  _Contemporary Topics 2: 21st Century Skills for Academic Success_. (4th ed.)
Pearson Education.
9. Lansford, L., Dummett, P. & Stephenson, H. (2016):  _Keynote (Advanced)._ National Geographic 
Learning/ Cengage Learning.
10. Lee, C. (2017):  _21 st Century Communication 4: Listening, Speaking, and Critical Thinking_. 
National Geographic Learning/ Cengage Learning.
11. Lim, P. L. & Smalzer, W. (2014):  _Listening & Notetaking Skills, Level 2_. (4th ed.) National 
Geographic Learning/ Cengage Learning.
12. Liu, J. & Harper, K. (2008):  _Communication Strategies 4_ , Cengage Learning Asia Pte Ltd.
13. Maclntyre, P. (2013):  _Pathways 4, Listening, Speaking, and Critical Thinking_. National Geographic
Learning/ Cengage Learning.
14. Rogers, M., Taylore-Knowles, J., Taylore-Knowles, S., & Wisniewska, I. (2015):  _Master Mind_
_(Level 1)._ (2nd ed.) Macmillan.
15. Sarosy, P. & Sherak, K. (2013):_Lecture Ready 2_. (2nd ed.) Oxford University Press.
16. Stephenson, H., Lansford, L. & Dummett, P. (2017):  _Keynote 4_. National Geographic Learning/ 
Cengage Learning
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:避免過度依賴, AI生成內容僅用作參考資料，須結合個人分析和思考來完成學習 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Moodle: 
http://moodle.nccu.edu.tw/

```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/07/14 Academic_Listening_and_Speaking_Rubrics.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
@Research Building **#906**
Tuesday 11:00-11:50
Thursday 12:10-13:00
(by appointment; at least 2 days in advance)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Miss Flora Huang
111601030@nccu.edu.tw
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
