國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：選修英文：傳播英文
#####  Course Name: English Elective: English for Mass Communication
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：599777001 Course No.599777001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_35_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中心 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center/B/0 
  * 授課老師：朱容萱 Instructor: CHU RONG-XUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
_English for Mass Communication_ has been designed with the aim of nurturing students’ expertise in English communication, fostering their ability to think creatively, solve problems, and effectively practice communication. By enrolling in this course, students can anticipate the acquisition of valuable skills that will enhance their prospects for future academic pursuits and employment.
The course structure revolves around unit themes that focus on the practical application of English communication in diverse contexts. Specific units included in the design encompass a wide range of subjects, including an overview of communication applications, multimedia production of English communication such as podcast creation, video production, script development, and so on.
Through active participation in this course, students will not only improve their English language proficiency, but also gain hands-on experience in applying their mass communication skills in real-life scenarios. The knowledge and expertise they acquire throughout this course will prove advantageous as they pursue further educational or career opportunities.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course has been carefully designed to offer students the chance to enhance their ability to effectively convey their messages to an audience when communicating in English. Students will receive ongoing support and guidance to address any challenges they encounter throughout the course.
The objectives & learning outcomes of the course include:
  1. Enhancing students’ ability to deliver compelling public speeches and presentations.
  2. Enabling students to identify and overcome their own communication weaknesses.
  3. Boosting students’ confidence in carrying out practical communication tasks.
  4. Providing students with opportunities to observe and analyze information and interactions across various communication mediums.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Topic** |  **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course Introduction |  Needs analysis |  Getting to know each other  
2 |  Media Literacy |  Types of Communication |  Speaking task and group discussion  
3 |  Managing communication |  Self-media and promotion |  Speaking task and group discussion  
4 |  Fundamental aspects of verbal communication | 
  1. Pronunciation and voice production
  2. Prosody 

|  Group work: to start a podcast: intro & outro  
5 |  Effectiveness of self-media |  Public speaking, strategies and rhetorical devices |  Assignment Due  
6 |  Digital communication and production  |  Reviewing and practicing scripts for a podcast |  Group work: to create a podcast episode  
7 |  Oral communication skills | 
  1. Asking for and giving information
  2. Asking questions and responding politely

|  Group Presentation I  
8 |  Exhibition as a communication tool |  Using exhibitions to communicate ideas and concepts |  Group work: introducing an exhibition  
9 |  Mid-term exam |  Exam |  Exam  
10 |  News, Discourse and Communication | 
  * Speech Act Theory
  * Discourse Analysis
  * Critical Discourse Analysis
  * Frame Analysis

|  Group work: video pre-production   
11 |  Nonverbal communication | 
  * Body language and presentation skills
  * Gestures, posture and manners

|  Group Presentation II  
12 |  Video Communication  | 
  * Metaphorical Framing theory
  * Conceptual metaphor theory

|  Group work: Video production and editing   
13 |  Current issues regarding mass communication |  Reading exercise:  Challenges, trends and future |  Writing task and group discussion  
14 |  Preparing and presenting persuasive speeches |  Agreeing and disagreeing, expressing opinions and demanding explanations |  Group Presentation III  
15 |  Culture and media |  Conflict across cultures |  Writing task and group work  
16 |  Final exam |  Exam |  Exam  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
_**ASSIGNMENTS AND REQUIREMENTS**_
You are expected to:
- participate _actively_ in all in-class activities and discussion;
- attend each class __and__ be on time;
- to submit an individual assignment;
- conduct a group oral presentation;
- collaboratively complete a podcast episode within a small group comprising 2-3 individuals;
- to produce a short video in a small group consisting of 2-3 individuals; 
- attend a mid-term examination;
- attend a final examination.
Your final grades are determined by the following course components:
  * Individual assignment: 20%
  * Group oral presentation: 20 %
  * Final examination: 20 %
  * Mid-term examination: 20%
  * Attendance (10%), class participation (10%): 20 %


**_Attendance_**
Attendance will be recorded in every class, when possible. Habitual lateness and unauthorized use of cell phone will also jeopardize your attendance records. A leave of absence should be arranged beforehand or soon afterwards with proper documentation.
**_Class Participation_**
Class participation refers to your active involvement in the class activities including your in-class questions to the instructor, insights and comments regarding class content, responses to the instructor’s questions, and reactions to other students’ contributions.
**_Oral presentations_**
You will give an individual oral report and a group presentation during the semester. For the individual report, you will give a 7-minute personal talk. For the group presentation, you and two other students will present on a given topic. The presentation should be approximately 15 minutes, followed by a 7-minute discussion. Each group is welcome to meet with the instructor prior to their presentation to discuss their presentation outline. More details will be provided in class.
**_Examinations_**
All materials, including the readings, handouts, and information provided in class will potentially be included on mid-term and final exams. The mid-term exam is a speaking test, and the final exam is a written test. The speaking test requires you to deliver an individual oral presentation. The instructor will assess your subject knowledge, presentation skills, English proficiency, and your ability to respond to questions appropriately. The grading rubric for the speaking test is available on the class website. The written test requires you to examine a script, such as a podcast or video script. Your performance will be evaluated based on the quality of your analysis, your language proficiency in conveying your ideas, your ability to present critical perspectives, and the coherence of your analysis. The grading rubric for the written test is available on the class website. No make-up exams will be given unless you have received the instructor’s permission in advance. 
**_The use of generative AI tools_**
The use of generative AI tools is permitted in this course for the following activities:
Brainstorming 
Fine-tuning your responses/answers to enhance readability
Searching for information on your topic
Creating a framework to structure your ideas
Checking grammar, spelling and punctuation.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
To be announced. 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Brainstorming Fine-tuning your responses/answers to enhance readability Searching for information on your topic Creating a framework to structure your ideas Checking grammar Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
1.	TED: https://www.youtube.com/@TED
2.	Standford Graduate School of Business (Make body language your super power): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cFLjudWTuGQ 
3.	Letter Live: https://www.youtube.com/@LettersLive
4.	Luke’s English podcast: https://www.youtube.com/@LukesEnglishPodcast

```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/06/16 English for Mass Communication_ Rubrics.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Making prior appointment is required. 
Research Building 9th Floor - 0908. 
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
