國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：選修英文：創意寫作
#####  Course Name: English Elective: Creative Writing
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：599772001 Course No.599772001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中心 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center/B/0 
  * 授課老師：戚大為 Instructor: DAVID ARNOLD GERICH 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五234 Session: fri09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is an introduction to creative writing and literacy through the fundamentals of writing non-fiction, fiction, and poetry with an emphasis on genre knowledge and audience awareness. The course, which is conducted in English, incorporates lectures and discussion sessions making class-time full of activity. Writing assignments provide students with opportunities to practice and improve their writing skills while designing topics based on their own interests and experiences. Students learn ways to approach writing assignments and how to use their writing ability to express themselves creatively in a variety of genres in English. Based on the lectures, lessons, and in-class practice, students will create a portfolio of creative work to present at the end of the semester.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
In this class, learners will practice writing as a process of invention and revision that anyone can master with effort. The course is taught with a particular emphasis on helping non-native-speaking students improve their general English writing skills and language use/sentence structure within the context of creative writing. As with academic writing, students will learn the importance of structure for each writing piece, providing the framework for creative expression. The course is divided into two main sections: creative non-fiction and short-story fiction with additional instruction and practice in screenwriting and poetry. In creative non-fiction, students will learn how to compose travel writing, features/human interest articles, and memoir/personal experience compositions. In fiction, students will learn how to compose a short story, which includes character-creation, world-building, plotting, genre, voice, and dialogue. In addition to non-fiction and fiction skills, students will learn a variety of other creative writing methods, such as composing scenes for film and theater, writing poetry such as haiku and free-verse, and creative journaling. By the end of the course, students will become more confident in their English writing skills and be able to transfer this confidence into any form of writing, whether non-academic or academic.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Topic** |  **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course Orientation |  |  Introduction to the course, assignments, and portfolio project; Getting to know one another through in-class writing and discussion  
---  
Teaching activities: assign partners, pair discussion, and peer feedback; lecture on academic writing review and its relevance to creative writing HW: Gather materials for the class  
2 |  Descriptive writing and the five senses |  How to describe people, places, objects, and experiences using descriptive language |  Teaching activities: pair discussion, writing practice and peer feedback; lecture on the five senses and practice writing descriptions   
3 |  Creative non-fiction: travel writing |  How to write articles on travel following the travel writing essay structure with model and outline |  Teaching activities: pair discussion, writing practice, and peer feedback; lecture on travel writing in short form (paragraphs) and long form (essays); discussion on travel HW: Write a **travel essay** about a past trip, describing the location, your experience, and recommendations for prospective travelers  
4 |  Creative non-fiction: feature writing |  How to write a feature article, human interest story, for a blog; interviews and reported speech; following the model outline |  Teaching activities: pair discussion, writing practice, and peer feedback; lecture on creative introductions; interviewing classmates and reporting HW: Write a **features article** on a classmate  
5 |  Creative non-fiction: memoir and personal experience writing |  How to describe your own personal experience and lessons learned, following narrative essay structure; following memoir storytelling outline |  Teaching activities: pair discussion, writing practice, and peer feedback; lecture on narrative essay structure and lessons learned HW: Write about an experience that made a significant impact on your life  
6 |  Review Creative non-fiction |  Review the forms of creative non-fiction writing that we have learned so far; writing workshop |  Review forms of creative non-fiction for the exam; catch up on projects for the portfolio; in-class oral feedback from peers and teacher  
7 |  **In-class Exam on Creative Non-Fiction** |  Students write one of the genres that we have studied in creative non-fiction |   
8 |  Fiction: Story preparation: genre and world building; character creation |  Discussing fiction genres for short stories and novels – key differences; How to build a fictional world for a story; Sketching main characters; how to write dialogue in English stories; voice |  Teaching activities: pair discussion, writing practice, and peer feedback; lecture on genre differences and examples; building a fantasy world for a role-playing game or story; create a protagonist and antagonist for your story; lecture on using dialogue with examples; character building worksheets; writing “in character” (first person vs. third person storytelling)  HW: Draw and describe a map of your fantasy world; Complete a character sheet for your protagonist  
9 |  Fiction: Story plotting: short stories, using and implementing five-act structure  |  How to structure stories and novels; and creating a story outline; show an example in Disney’s _Sleeping Beauty_ |  Teaching activities: pair discussion, writing practice, and peer feedback; lecture on short story structure; outlining fiction HW: Outline your short story  
10 |  Fiction: Short story workshop |  Practice writing your short story; guided practice through each step of the story creation process  |  Teaching activities: pair discussion, writing practice, and peer feedback; teacher feedback on each step of the story creation process HW: Create a main character for your story and two minor characters  
11 |  Writing for film and TV: action dialogue and creating scenes; Review for Short Story Exam |  Writing screenplays; how to write scenes with a beginning, middle, and end; look at an example/model of a short screenplay; Review of short story structure for exam |  Teaching activities: pair discussion, writing practice, and peer feedback; lecture on screenplays with examples; writing a scene and acting it out with classmates HW: Write a scene in your story in screenplay mode  
12 |  **In-class Exam on Short Story** |  Students write a short story in class with outline and character sheets |   
13 |  Poetry: haiku, rhyming, and free verse |  What is haiku, rhyming, and free verse poetry? How to write poetry – looking at examples and learning from reading English poetry |  Teaching activities: pair discussion, writing practice, and peer feedback; lecture on haiku, rhyming, and free verse with examples; reading poetry and interpretation HW: Write a haiku or free verse poem  
14 |  Poetry:  **Class Poetry Reading** |  Practicing writing poetry and presentations |  Teaching activities: Writing workshop to practice poetry, learn grammar, and present a poetry reading  
15 |  Creative journaling: diaries and freewriting methods |  How to write a journal for fun, for practice, or for therapy (public blogs, social media posts, or private works) |  Teaching activities: pair discussion, writing practice, and peer feedback; lecture on freewriting methods; practice journaling HW: Write a creative diary entry for a day in your life  
16 |  **Final Presentations: Portfolio Sharing** |  Students give a presentation to share one of their favorite works in their portfolio |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_10%_
####  其他： Others: In-class writing practice 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
All materials, including the written text, handouts, and any information spoken in class or written on the board, are expected to be reflected in your work. Take notes, and study the writing models and handouts. Keep all of the work you do during the course (collected in your portfolio) until after the final grades have been announced. Your final grades will be determined by the following course components:
**Participation: (including attendance, late to class, in-class participation, homework assignments): 15%**
**Portfolio Project: 25%**
**Creative Non-Fiction Exam: 30%**
**Short Story Exam: 30%**
**Participation:**
This grade includes homework writing assignments completed on time (collected in the portfolio); in-class performance: group/pair discussion, peer review, effort on in-class writing; attendance; and coming to class on time. 
  * Students must have a positive attitude for learning. If students come with a bad attitude, it can affect the entire mood of the class, so students who project a negative attitude may expect to lose participation points. This includes sleeping in class or focusing on his/her phone while ignoring others. Phones should be used for better engagement in writing/speaking activities, not disengagement. 
  * Participating in the class means completing the in-class writing activities, speaking in pairs or groups, and participating in the class poetry reading. 
  * Interacting with classmates in English is a must since students will help each other by giving peer feedback on their writing and also work together to complete in-class or even out-of-class writing assignments. 
  * Most of the homework assignments will either be started or completed in class. Whatever assignments that are not finished in class must be completed for homework. All homework and classwork assignments should be added to the student's portfolio. 
  * All AI tools, including Grammarly, other help tools, and outside help from tutors or native speakers, are not allowed to be used on homework assignments. Students who turn in assignments with perfect grammar with native-speaker-like idiomatic usage will be suspected of cheating and will receive a zero on their assignment, regardless of any other work done for that particular assignment. Students' out-of-class assignments will be compared to their in-class tests to determine if the form and structure match, accounting for the fact that out-of-class assignments tend to be better because the student has more time. If there is a great discrepancy between the two, (for example, a level-10 grammar on the out-of-class assignment, and a much lower level of grammar on the in-class assignment) students will be suspected of cheating and will receive a zero on the out-of-class assignment. In other words, all assignments must reflect the student's true writing ability without any other help.
  * Attendance is mandatory. Students with three unexcused absences or more will fail the course. Students are expected to come to class on time. If a student is late three times, it counts as one absence.


**Portfolio Project:**
Students must create their own “textbook” by collecting all of their class handouts, lecture notes, practice exercises, and homework assignments into one volume of work. This portfolio of the students’ work will be turned in at the end of the semester as the students’ proof for having completed assignments. What should be included in the portfolio: in-class exercises for each week and the following writing samples of the student's work: travel writing, feature writing, a memoir, a short story with all preparation, a screenplay, and a poem. In addition to completing their portfolio, students must give a _final presentation_ to share their favorite piece of writing from their portfolio with the class. Portfolios will be graded on neatness/organization, completeness, and effort. Presentations will be based on content (originality of the work presented) and intelligibility (how well the listeners can understand the speaker). Students must include a table of contents with dates of assigned work completed.
**Creative Non-Fiction Exam:**
This first in-class exam is a test of the creative non-fiction modes that have been taught and practiced in class. These include travel writing, features writing, and a memoir/personal experience composition. Students will write according to the topic presented on the day of the exam and include an outline to show the structure of their work. Students’ writing will be judged on outline structure, creative introductions, supporting body paragraphs, creative conclusions, and language use.
**Short Story Exam:**
This second in-class exam is a test of the short story mode that students have learned and practiced in class. Students will create a main character and plot out a story using the model that was presented in class. Students must create a story based on the topic that will be revealed on the day of the exam. Students’ writing will be judged on pre-writing (plot structure/character development), creative introductions, dialogue and story, creative conclusions, and language use.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
There is no textbook to purchase for the class. Students must create their own “textbook” (the final portfolio project) by collecting all of their class handouts, lecture notes, practice exercises, and homework assignments into one volume of work.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
禁止使用:All AI writing tools, including Grammarly or any other help tools, are forbidden to be used on any assignment. Use of AI-generated photos or illustrations to enhance the portfolio is allowed.  Prohibited Uses
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
https://flc.nccu.edu.tw/
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Research Building 405; Please contact the instructor by email to set up an appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
