國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：選修英文：職場溝通
#####  Course Name: English Elective: Workplace Communication
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：599796011 Course No.599796011


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_35_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中心 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center/B/0 
  * 授課老師：金嘉炘 Instructor: JIN JIA XIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
_Workplace Communication_ is a one-semester 3-credit-hour course designed for high-intermediate/advanced students of English as a foreign language. This is _not_ a course that aims to teach students business knowledge. Rather, it is designed to allow students to transform their English language knowledge into communicative skills necessary for the workplace in any profession.
Traditionally, “English at the workplace” often means “business English” which involves business terminology and business correspondence. However, as we embrace constant changes at work in the 21st century, particular content knowledge will soon be outdated. What is needed, therefore, is adaptability in cross-cultural contexts,as well as productive language skills for the ever-changing workplace.In this course, students are expected to use the English language to teleconference, to analyze case studies, to conduct individual or group presentations, to write job-hunting documents, and to compose formal emails and case reports. It is hoped that, through the vehicle of English language, as well as the exposure to the finer points of international workplace etiquette, students are able to, not only sharpen their language skills, but also develop a proper mindset and cross-cultural awareness that are essential to one’s success in any job.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The primary goal of this courseis to allow students to maximize their English listening, speaking, and writing abilities while exploring a wide range of topics from corporate entertaining to management styles, from brand management to business innovation, from business ethics to cross-cultural communication. All topics have been specially chosen to remain current and can be covered in any order. Class will be conducted entirely in English.
**Learning outcomes:**
Upon completion of the course, students are expected to have:
  1. learned the skills to socialize in English for different occasions,
  2. learned the etiquette of teleconferencing in English,
  3. upgraded their English presentation skills,
  4. broadened their knowledge of cross-cultural communication,
  5. learned how to write a resume and cover letter in English,
  6. learned how to write a case study summary in English,
  7. learned how to write formal emails for different purposes in English, and


developed skills in working with a group on an assigned project.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside-of-class Hours**  
1 |  **Introduction** |  Socializing |  Worksheet |  3 |  4.5  
2 |  **Talking about Your Job** | Business English Podcast 159 |  **Khan Academy: an assistant hotel manager’s job description** (worksheet) ① watch video ② What mentioned in the video impresses you the most? ③ What required hotel manager qualities do you have? |  3 |  4.5  
3 | **Talking about Your Company** | Business English Podcast 160 |  **Corporate Responsibility** ① pre-reading discussion ② reading  ③ information exchanging (in pairs) **Homework: Corporate Social Responsibility: case sharing (presentation)** |  3 |  4.5  
4 |  **1. Group presentation #1 (13%): Corporate Social Responsibility: Case Sharing** **2. How to Make Effective Presentations** | students' group presentations | students' group presentations |  3 |  4.5  
5 | **Motivating your Team (Part 1)** | Business English Podcast 153 | feedback for students' group presentations |  3 |  4.5  
6 | **Motivating your Team (Part 2)** | Business English Podcast 154 |  **Building a better workplace through motivation—Kellogg’s** **Homework: Proposal to Boost Hotel Occupancy Rate (presentation)** |  3 |  4.5  
7 |  **Presentation #2 (13%): Proposal to Boost Hotel Occupancy Rate** |  students' group presentations | students' group presentations |  3 |  4.5  
8 |  **Interviewing for your First Job (Part 1)** **Resume: https://resume-resource.com/** |  Business English Podcast 167 self-study & complete homework |  A Simple Step-by-Step Formula for the Number 1 Job Interview Question Homework #1 (5%): Resume (template) **Resume: https://resume-resource.com/** |  3 |  4.5  
9 | **Interviewing for your First Job (Part 2)** |  Business English Podcast 168 |  1. Culips English Podcast: Chatterbox #37– Job Interview (worksheet) 2. Resume: useful websites |  3 |  4.5  
10 |  **Interviewing for your First Job (Part 3)** **Job Interview Simulation** |  Business English Podcast 169 |   
---  
self-study & complete homework
1. Homework #2 (10%): Job interview simulation: voice recording (p. 47) |  3 |  4.5  
11 | **Sales: Features, Advantages & Benefits (FAB)** | Business English Podcast 92 | **Homework: A FAB Product Presentation (presentation)** |  3 |  4.5  
12 | **Presentation #3 (13%): FAB Product Presentation** | students' group presentations | students' group presentations |  3 |  4.5  
13 | **Working in Multicultural Teams (Part 1)** | Business English Podcast 149 |  1. The 6 Cultural Dimensions 2. small talk |  3 |  4.5  
14 | **Working in Multicultural Teams (Part 2)** | Business English Podcast 150 |  **Are Two Managers Too Many?** ① group discussion ② discussion results sharing |  3 |  4.5  
15 | **Presenting** | Business English Podcast 141 |  **NPR: Bubble Tea Entrepreneurs** (worksheet) |  3 |  4.5  
16 | **Presentation #4 (13%): SWOT Analysis** | students' group presentations |  **Homework** : **Comparing 2 products using SWOT analysis (presentation)** |  3 |  4.5  
17 |  |  |  |  |   
18 |  |  |  |  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
You are expected to:
- participate _actively_ in all in-class activities and discussion;
- preview assigned material;
- attend each class __and__ be on time;
- take an individual speaking test;
- conduct a group oral presentation;
- hand in writing assignments;
- attend a final examination.
Your final grades are determined by the following course components:
  * Individual speaking test: 10%
  * Group oral presentation: 20 %
  * Final examination: 20 %
  * Writing assignments (one each: case study summary, resume,andcover letter): 30%
  * Attendance (10%), class participation (10%): 20 %


**ASSIGNMENTS AND****REQUIREMENTS**
**_Attendance_**
Attendance will be recorded in every class, when possible. Habitual lateness and unauthorized use of cell phone will also jeopardize your attendance records. A leave of absenceshould be arranged beforehand or soon afterwards with proper documentation.
**_Participation_**
Class participation refers to your active involvement in the class activities including your in-class questions to the instructor, insights and comments regarding class content, responses to the instructor’s questions, and reactions to other students’ contributions.
**_Writing assignments_**
In addition to the periodic in-class writing exercises, individual- or group-based, you will complete three major writing assignments: (1) a case study summary, (2) a personal resume, and (3) a cover letter. The case study summary is based on one of the case studies conducted in class. A writing template and gradingrubrics will be provided in class. For the resume and cover letter, you will be asked to respond to an authentic, self-chosen job advertisement. Even with limited work experience, you are encouraged to list and to elaborate on your most favorable qualifications by closely examining your academic background and relevant experiences. All writing assignments are to be handed in on the due dates. No late hand-ins are accepted unless pre-approved.
**_Oral presentations_**
You will take one individual speaking test and give one group presentation. The individual test is based on your speaking performance in a mock teleconference call. For the group presentation, you will team up with 4 or 5 other classmates of your choice and develop a feasible solution to a long-standingproblem, which you identify, at a workplace. The group presentation should be approximately 20 minutes long, followed by a Q&A session. Specific guidelines and grading rubrics will be provided in class.
**_Examination_**
The final exam is a paper-&-pencil exam. All materials, including the readings, handouts, and audio-video exercises provided in class throughout the semester will potentially be included. No make-up exam will be given unless you obtain the instructor’s permission in advance.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Business English Podcast
https://www.businessenglishpod.com/
Other course-related learning materials are compiled by the instructor and shared with students via a Google Cloud Drive link.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Students will be informed when the use of AI apps is prohibited, such as during exams. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1utrLkF-08hruWiZ6F0cL9lgdwm5QU2ap?usp=drive_link
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Monday 12:00-18:00 (道藩B1, R320004/國際大樓外文中心教師休息室)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
1. Make copies of handouts.
2. Grade quizzes.
3. Register quiz points.
4. Convert and edit files
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
