國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：大學外文（一）：波蘭文 
#####  Course Name: College Foreign Language I : Polish
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：599915001 Course No.599915001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_15_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外文中心 Course Department:Foreign Languages Center/B/0 
  * 授課老師：貝娜煦 Instructor: Bednarz Karolina Aneta 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course provides an introduction to Polish language and culture while ensuring a solid command of the fundamental grammatical structures and Polish pronunciation. Students will learn four key linguistic competences: listening, reading, speaking and writing based on various types of texts. The contents of the course include subjects related to everyday life: personal data, general look, family, leisure activities, everyday life situations etc. The aim of the course is to enable students to function in simple everyday situations.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
By the end of the course students will be able to:
- understand and use familiar everyday expressions and basic phrases aimed at the satisfaction of needs of a concrete type
- introduce themselves and others
- ask and answer questions about personal details such as where someone lives, people they know and things they have
- interact in a simple way provided the other person talks slowly and clearly
- use formal and informal language in different situations.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
WEEK |  TOPIC |  CONTENT  
---|---|---  
1 |  _Proszę powtórzyć!_ |  Polish alphabet and pronunciation  basic expressions greetings  
2 |  _Cześć! Jak się nazywasz?_ |  basic expressions greetings  self-itroduction  formal and informal forms of address numbers 1-10   
3  |  _Skąd jesteś? Gdzie mieszkasz?_ |  personal data  formal and informal forms of address  verbs _być, mieszkać_ conjucation –m –sz  numbers 10-29   
4  |  _Co to jest? Kto to jest?_ |  basic nouns  basic adjectives, colors  grammatical gender of nouns and adjectives Nominative singular   
5  |  _Jaki jesteś? Jaka jesteś?_ |  adjectives describing appearance  verbs _mówić, uczyć się_ conjucation _–ę –isz/-ysz_ numbers 10-199   
6 |  _Co lubisz robić?_ |  expressing preferences  _lubić + infinitivie_ construction  conjucation _–ę –esz_  
7  |  _Czym się interesujesz?_ _Kim jesteś z zawodu?_ |  expressing preferences  names of professions in masculine and feminine  Instrumental singular   
8 - 9 |  _Powtórzenie i utrwalenie materiału_ _Egzamin śródsemestralny_ |  repetition and consolidation  midterm examination  
10 - 11 |  _Co kupujesz?_ |  everyday shopping  Accusative singular  numbers 100-1000   
12 - 13 |  _Co jesz na śniadanie?_ |  food and drink, food preferences  Accusative singular  Instrumental singular and plural verbs _jeść_ , _pić_ and _woleć_  
14 - 15 |  _Co dla pani?_ |  shopping at the market Nominativ & Accusative singular and plural  
16 |  _Powtórzenie i utrwalenie materiału_ _Egzamin_ |  repetition and consolidation  final examination   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_10%_
####  講述 Lecture
_50%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_20%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Students are able to recognize typical communication situations in which single statements appear, short rejoinders as part of a short dialogue and short monologue statements on topics included in the Syllabus, formulated in a standard form of the language. They understand explicit communication intentions in statements regarding basic needs  
everyday life, can recognize the topic of the text (global understanding) and find simple information contained in it in a short statement with a simplified structure (detailed understanding), spoken slowly and very clearly, in very good (close to ideal) acoustic conditions, with pronunciation and intonation adapted to the possibilities  
student's perceptual skills at this level.
Students understand and apply the differences between the official and unofficial varieties of Polish according to the situation. They know and use some sociocultural conventions applicable in communication in Polish.
Students demonstrate limited mastery of simple sentence structures and patterns - within the framework of the learned resource.
Deficiencies in pronunciation, vocabulary, grammatical correctness and spelling should not occur significantly disrupt communication.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
I. Stempek, A. Stelmach, S. Dawidek, A. Szymkiewicz: _Polski, krok po kroku 1_. _Student’s book_ , Glossa
I. Stempek, M. Grudzień: _Polski, krok po kroku 1_. _Workbook_ , Glossa 
L. Madelska, G. Schwartz: _Discovering Polish.__A Learner's Grammar_ , Prolog
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:The use of AI for translating texts, preparing written statements, checking for errors, etc. is prohibited.  Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
lektor.bednarz@gmail.com
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
