國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際智慧財產權法專題研究（二）
#####  Course Name: Seminar on International Intellectual Property Law (II)
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：601451001 Course No.601451001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：法律三甲、法律三乙、法律三丙、法律四甲、法律四乙、法律四丙 Course Department:Law/B/3&4 
  * 授課老師：沈宗倫 Instructor: SHEN CHUNG-LUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二34 Session: tue10-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
Being independent of Seminar I, the course (Seminar II) is designed to examine intellectual property (IP) law and policy in the international arena by addressing the core international agreements governing intellectual property, such as the Paris Convention, and the Berne Convention; and the TRIPS Agreement (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights). We will focus on the legal and economic implications of the international intellectual property standards in the light of prior Conventions, with particular regard to such topics as copyrights, patents, trademark, and trade secrets.
There is no pre-requisite for this course. Background in intellectual property laws is not necessary, although it may occasionally help you understand the subject. The materials for class will be assigned according to the instructor's class schedule. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 專業知識
  * B. 實務運用
  * C. 表達溝通
  * D. 社會參與
  * E. 人文關懷
  * F. 國際視野
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course aims to help students understand the essential IP issues in the international arena. Through reading, discussion, instructor’s questions, and class presentations, this course should help students recognize the economic, political, and technological dimensions associated with international IP. A minor goal is to equipped students with the basic language capabilities to deal with international IP issues.
This is an English-taught course. By and large, during the first half of this semester, each meeting day will be proceeded via Socratic approach to help students understand the essence of reading assignment. Students have the obligation to read the assignment before class, and are strongly encouraged to participate in the discussion over the background and legal issues under the assignment. All students, divided to 8 groups, will normally be invited by the instructor to serve as teaching assistants, at turns, to present the assignment and lead the classmates to answer questions in class. Of course, those who are not on duty are always welcome to participate as well.
Another half of this semester is a seminar on IP. Students will be separated into the presenting groups. Each group has to present once in the semester a draft developed in an International IP-related topic. Presenters are responsible for answering questions raised by commentators and other colleagues. Presenters are required to email the abstract of their presentation by 5:00 pm Wednesday before the class. Moreover, each group has to serve as commentators once for their colleague’s presentation. 
A final paper has to be submitted in the end of the semester on a group base. It is preferred that this final paper derives from the students’ presentation, and incorporates their own responses, and their colleagues’ comments. Papers should be printed on A4 size papers. Ideally, a final paper written in English should be around 3500-5,000 words, the due day of final papers is December23rd., 2025.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
9月2日
Introduction
9月9日
Topic: Introduction to International Intellectual Property Law
Class instructor: Professor Shen
Reading Assignment: Frederick M. Abbott et al., International Intellectual Property in an Integrated World Economy, pp1-19; The TRIPS Agreement
Hours input for learning on preview and review: 2 hours
9月16日
Topic: National Treatment for Protection of Intellectual Property
Class instructor: Professor Shen
Reading Assignment: Goldstein & Tremble, International Intellectual Property pp. 13-24.
Hours input for learning on preview and review: 2 hours
9月23日
Topic: Choice of Forum for the Intellectual Property Litigation
Class instructor: Professor Shen
Reading Assignment: Goldstein & Tremble, International Intellectual Property pp. 24-51
Hours input for learning on preview and review: 2 hours
9月30日
Topic: Choice of Law for the Intellectual Property Litigation
Class instructor: Professor Shen
Reading Assignment: Goldstein & Tremble, International Intellectual Property pp. 51-69
Hours input for learning on preview and review: 2 hours
10月7日
Topic: Patent and Territoriality
Class instructor: Professor Shen
Reading Assignment: Goldstein & Tremble, International Intellectual Property pp. 433-447
Hours input for learning on preview and review : 2 hours
10月14日Preparation Day: Group Discussion for TA Session (1)
10月21日 TA Session (1)
Topic: TRIPS Agreement_ framework for patent law 
Class instructor: Professor Shen and the teaching assistants on duty
Assignment: Carlos Maria Correa, Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights: A Commentary on the TRIPS Agreement 259-303 (2d. ed. 2020).
Hours input for learning on preview and review: 4 hours 
10月28日 Preparation Day: Group Discussion for TA Session (2)
11月4日 TA Session (2)
Topic: TRIPS Agreement_ framework for trademark law 
Class instructor: Professor Shen and the teaching assistants on duty
Assignment: Carlos Maria Correa, Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights: A Commentary on the TRIPS Agreement 161-195 (2d. ed. 2020).
Hours input for learning on preview and review: 4 hours
11月11日 Preparation Day: Group Discussion for TA Session (3)
11月18日 TA Session (3)
Topic: TRIPS Agreement_ framework for copyright law 
Class instructor: Professor Shen and the teaching assistants on duty
Assignment: Carlos Maria Correa, Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights: A Commentary on the TRIPS Agreement 107-153 (2d. ed. 2020).
Hours input for learning on preview and review: 4 hours
11月25日 Preparation Day: Group Discussion for Final Presentation
12月2日
Presentation for the group term papers
12月9日
Presentation for the group term papers
12月16日
Presentation for the group term papers
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.