國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：公司治理與 ESG
#####  Course Name: Corporate Governance and ESG
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：652830001 Course No.652830001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_2.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_5_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：法科碩一、法科碩二 Course Department:Graduate Institute of Law and Interdisciplinary Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：陳盈如 Instructor: CHEN YING-JU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D5 Session: thu13-15 


##  課程簡介Course Description
Corporate governance traditionally focuses on the relationships among a company's management, board of directors, shareholder, and even and how these relationships affect a company's operations and performance. But in addition to performance in financial statements, the role of environmental, social and governance (ESG) in corporate governance has also received increasing attention in recent years. As environmental and social issues increase, investors are demanding that companies incorporate ESG principles into their corporate governance policies so that they can make informed decisions about their investment. Investors take a company's ESG performance into consideration when investing, not only to obtain a high monetary return on investment, but also to ensure that the company's operations will not damage the environment or violate human rights, etc., and also enable the company to fulfill its social and sustainable responsibilities. This course will discuss a range of issues related to the role of companies in the environment, society and governance, and the development of related responsibilities and obligations.  
This course requires students to complete a short essay and give a class presentation. The purpose of this class is not only to gain an in-depth understanding of emerging corporate governance issues, but also to increase students' reading ability in foreign literature. In addition, in order to help students be more detailed in citations of their articles, the first few weeks of this class will teach the Bluebook Citation System, so that students can correctly present the citation format in their essays.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 學術知能—整合原有領域與法學之學術知能 Academic knowledge : integration of legal training and students' original professions
  * B. 就業知能—別於傳統之多元就業知能 Employability skills : diversified employment
  * C. 公民與價值知能—現代與國際公民之價值 Citizenship and the values : the values of global citizenship within current trends


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Corporate governance traditionally focuses on the relationships among a company's management, board of directors, shareholder, and even and how these relationships affect a company's operations and performance. But in addition to performance in financial statements, the role of environmental, social and governance (ESG) in corporate governance has also received increasing attention in recent years. As environmental and social issues increase, investors are demanding that companies incorporate ESG principles into their corporate governance policies so that they can make informed decisions about their investment. Investors take a company's ESG performance into consideration when investing, not only to obtain a high monetary return on investment, but also to ensure that the company's operations will not damage the environment or violate human rights, etc., and also enable the company to fulfill its social and sustainable responsibilities. This course will discuss a range of issues related to the role of companies in the environment, society and governance, and the development of related responsibilities and obligations.  
This course requires students to complete a short essay and give a class presentation. The purpose of this class is not only to gain an in-depth understanding of emerging corporate governance issues, but also to increase students' reading ability in foreign literature. In addition, in order to help students be more detailed in citations of their articles, the first few weeks of this class will teach the Bluebook Citation System, so that students can correctly present the citation format in their essays.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Syllabus** |  **Time**  
---|---  
**Chapter 1****：****Bluebook Citation** |  4 Weeks  
**Chapter 2****：****Overview of Corporate Governance and ESG** |  3Weeks  
**Chapter 3****：****Presentations**
  1. Corporate Governance 
     * Reference: Joseph Lee, _The Corporate Governance Officer as a Transformed Role of the Company Secretary: An International Comparison_ , 14 S.C.J. Int'l L. & Bus. 107 (2018).
  2. Proxy Advisor and its Regulations 
     * Reference: Andrew F. Tuch, _Proxy Advisor Influence in A Comparative Light_ , 99 B.U. L. Rev. 1459 (2019).
  3. Stewardship of Institutional Investor and ESG
     * Reference: David William Roberts, _Agreement in Principle: A Compromise for Activist Shareholders from the UK Stewardship Code_ , 48 Vand. J. Transnat'l L. 543 (2015).
  4. D&O Insurance


  * Reference: René Otto & Wim Weterings, _D &O Insurance and Corporate Governance: Is D&O Insurance Indicative of the Quality of Corporate Governance in A Company?_, 24 Stan. J.L. Bus. & Fin. 105 (2019).


  1. Mandatory Disclosure of ESG Reports
     * Reference: Thomas Lee Hazen, _Social Issues in the Spotlight: The Increasing Need to Improve Publicly-Held Companies' CSR and ESG Disclosures_ , 23 U. Pa. J. Bus. L. 740 (2021).
  2. Misrepresentation of ESG Reports
     * Reference: Aisha I. Saad & Diane Strauss, _The New "Reasonable Investor" and Changing Frontiers of Materiality: Increasing Investor Reliance on ESG Disclosures and Implications for Securities Litigation_ , 17 Berkeley Bus. L.J. 391 (2020).
  3. Board and its ESG Accountability
     * Reference: Lisa M. Fairfax, _Board Committee Charters and ESG Accountability_ , 12 Harv. Bus. L. Rev. 371 (2022).
  4. Sustainability Bonds and its Regulations
     * Reference: Stephen Park, _Investors as Regulators: Green Bonds and The Governance Challenges of the Sustainable Finance Revolution_ , 54:1 Stan. J. Int'l L. 1, 5-6 (2018).

|  8 Weeks   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_40%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class Participation: 30%
Attendance: 20%
Essay and Presentation: 50%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Materials will be distributed in the class.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment only.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
None
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
