國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：文化心理學 
#####  Course Name: Introduction to Culture Psychology
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：702768001 Course No.702768001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_70_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：心理三 Course Department:Psychology/B/3 
  * 授課老師：吳庭達 Instructor: NG TING-TAT 
  * 先修科目：[ 普通心理學(全學年)(修習且及格)]Prerequisite([])
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
Cultural psychology is the scientific study of how cultures affect the thoughts, feelings, and behaviors of individuals. This course will provide an introduction to theories, concepts, and methods of cultural psychology. We will also discuss how cultures reflect and shape the psychological processes of individuals based on recent empirical research. Topics of this course include self and personality, motivation, cognition and perception, emotions, morality, etc., which are closely linked to other disciplines of psychology such as social psychology, cognitive psychology, and developmental psychology. 
_* This course is taught in English._
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCD雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 心理學專業能力 Professional knowledge of psychology
  * B. 思考與問題解決能力 Thinking and problem solving skills
  * C. 人際互動能力 Social skills
  * D. 多元文化關懷 Multiculturalism


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
**Course Objectives** |  **Assessment Tools**  
---|---  
Mid-term exam |  Final exam |  Group project |  Class participation  
Describe the theories, concepts, and methodology of cultural psychology |  ※ |  ※ |  ※ |   
Understand the importance of cultures in influencing the psychological processes of individuals |  ※ |  ※ |  |  ※  
Evaluate the credibility and generalizability of recent empirical findings of cultural psychology |  |  ※ |  ※ |  ※  
Apply the knowledge of cultural psychology to other disciplines of psychology as well as real-life contexts |  |  ※ |  ※ |  ※  
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities****and Homework** |  **學習投入時間****Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授****In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside- of-class** **Hours**  
1 (9/2) |  Introduction to cultural psychology |  Heine (2020) Ch. 1,2 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  3  
2 (9/9) |  Cultural evolution |  Heine (2020) Ch. 3 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
3 (9/16) |  Methods of cultural psychology |  Heine (2020) Ch. 4 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos **_*Submission of group member list_** |  3 |  5  
4 (9/23) |  Development and socialization |  Heine (2020) Ch. 5 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
5 (9/30) |  Self and personality |  Heine (2020) Ch. 6 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
6 (10/7) |  Motivation |  Heine (2020) Ch. 8 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
7 (10/14) |  Cognition and perception |  Heine (2020) Ch. 9 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
8 (10/21) |  **Mid-term Exam** |  Contents of **Week 1 – Week 5** |  Mid-term exam |  3 |  9  
9 (10/28) |  Emotions and morality |  Heine (2020) Ch. 10, 12 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
10 (11/4) |  Morality and justice |  Heine (2020) Ch. 12, 15 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
11 (11/11) |  Interpersonal attraction |  Heine (2020) Ch. 11, 15 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos |  3 |  5  
12 (11/18) |  Living in multicultural worlds |  Heine (2020) Ch. 7 |  Lecture, class discussion, and videos **_*Submission of project outline (11/21)_** |  3 |  5  
13 (11/25) |  Project consultation |  Project consultation for each group  |  Project consultation |  3 |  5  
14 (12/2) |  **Class Presentation I** |  Presentation and Q&A |  Class presentation |  3 |  6  
15 (12/9) |  **Class Presentation****II** |  Presentation and Q&A |  Class presentation |  3 |  6  
16 (12/16) |  **Final Exam** |  Contents of **Week 6 –7, Week 9 – 12** |  Final exam |  3 |  9  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
1. Mid-term exam: 25%
Multiple-choice questions, short questions, and essay questions
2. Final exam: 30%
Multiple-choice questions, short questions, and essay questions
3. Group project: 30%
Group presentation (25%) & Q&A (5%)
4. Class participation: 15%
Attendance, active in-class discussion, and mini in-class presentation
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Required readings:**
Heine, S. J. (2020). _Cultural psychology_(4th ed.). Norton.
*Other in-class readings will be uploaded to Moodle each week.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Students must declare whether and how they have used any kind of generative AI to assist with their assignments. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office location: Zhi Xi Building (志希樓) 070225 (By appointment)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBC
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
