國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：計算機結構與組織 
#####  Course Name: Computer Architecture and Organization
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：703019001 Course No.703019001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_70_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：資訊三 Course Department:Computer Science/B/3 
  * 授課老師：彭彥璁 Instructor: PENG YAN TSUNG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一D56 Session: mon13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is based on the textbook _Computer Organization and Design_ and provides a comprehensive introduction to the fundamental components of computer systems. Topics include the inner workings of CPUs, memory systems, input/output devices, and the critical interfaces between hardware and software.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 培養邏輯推理、獨立思考與創新能力
  * B. 理解自然科學與數位科技
  * C. 培養團隊合作的能力
  * D. 瞭解資訊科技發展趨勢與具備國際視野
  * E. 具有專業及道德責任的認知


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course introduces the fundamental concepts of computer architecture and emphasizes practical implementation. Students will have ample opportunities to apply what they learn through a variety of hands-on examples. By the end of the course, students are expected to identify the basic components of a computer, particularly CPUs and memory systems, and explain how they function from the digital logic level to the operating system level.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Week 1  
Subject： **Introduction & syllabus**  
Covering topics: Introduction to Computer Architecture and Organization  
Reading: Chapter 1 (Textbook)  
Teaching/HW: Explain the syllabus and illustrate the history of computer development  
Hours spent for preview: N/A  
Hours spent for review: 1 hour
--
Weeks 2 & 3  
Subject： **Performance Metrics and MIPS**  
Covering topics: CPU times, Clock cycles per instruction (CPI), Power consumption, Amdahl's Law, MIPS  
Reading: Chapter 1, 2 (Textbook)  
Teaching/HW: Get familiar with how to measure the performance of a computer. Homework will be released after each chapter ends.  
Hours spent for preview and review: 2 hours each
--
Weeks 4 & 5   
Subject： **MIPS**  
Covering topics: MIPS Assembly Language  
Reading: Chapter 2 (Textbook)  
Teaching/HW: Teaching how to program with MIPS. Homework will be released after each chapter ends.  
Hours spent for preview and review: 2 hours each
--
Weeks 7  
Subject： **Arithmetic for Computers**  
Covering topics: Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication, Signed Multiplication, Booth's algorithm, Division, Floating-Point Arithmetic, and the Structure of a CPU  
Reading: Chapter 3 (Textbook)  
Teaching/HW: Teaching arithmetic for computers. Homework will be released after each chapter ends.  
Hours spent for preview and review: 2 hours each
Week 8  
Subject: **Midterm Exam**
Weeks 9 & 10  
Subject： The Structure of a CPU  
Covering topics: Building a Datapath, Pipelined Datapath, Hazards  
Reading: Chapter 4 (Textbook)  
Teaching/HW: Explain the principles and techniques used in implementing a processor. Homework will be released after each chapter ends.  
Hours spent for preview and review: 2 hours each
Weeks 11, 12 & 13  
Subject: **Data and Control Path**  
Covering topics: Pipelined Control, Hazards  
Reading: Chapter 4 (Textbook)  
Teaching/HW: Explain the principles and techniques used in implementing a processor. Homework will be released after each chapter ends.  
Hours spent for preview and review: 2 hours each
**Self learning after class: 3 hours (past exam review)**
Weeks 14 & 15  
Subject: **Memory Hierarchy**  
Covering topics: Memory technologies, caches, virtual memory, parallelism, and memory hierarchy  
Reading: Chapter 5 (Textbook)  
Teaching/HW: Explain the memory hierarchy based on the principle of locality. Homework will be released after each chapter ends.  
Hours spent for preview and review: 2 hours each
**Self learning after class: 3 hours (SIMD, recorded invited talk)**
Week 16: Final Exam
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_90%_
####  講述 Lecture
_%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_10%_
####  其他： Others: 隨堂小考 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
–Participation - 10%
–Homework - 30%
–Midterm - 30%
–Final - 30%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Computer Organization and Design MIPS Edition: The Hardware/Software Interface (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Computer Architecture and Design) 5th Edition by David A. Patterson (Author), John L. Hennessy 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:可參考AI完成作業，但需註明。 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
https://www.javatpoint.com/computer-architecture-vs-computer-organization
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
**Office Hours:** Mondays, 12:00–13:00  
**Location:** Room 209, Da Ren Building
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBD
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
