國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：社群媒體概論
#####  Course Name: Introduction to Social Media
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：703857001 Course No.703857001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_25_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：資訊一、資訊二 Course Department:Computer Science/B/1&2 
  * 授課老師：謝佩璇 Instructor: HSIEH PEI-HSUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is interdisciplinary, covering the mathematical foundations of social network analysis (SNA), including SNA data collection and data analysis processes. Various SNA methods will be introduced, and then students will be encouraged to collaborate with other students from different fields in several workshops as well as active participation in various activities throughout the course. Students who enjoy interdisciplinary learning processes are encouraged to enroll. Active participation and frequent inquiries during classes are also expected. Toward the end of the course, students will have the option to apply the knowledge gained to complete group projects. The course aims to provide a high level of learning achievement, allowing students to find satisfaction in their academic progress.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 培養邏輯推理、獨立思考與創新能力
  * B. 理解自然科學與數位科技
  * C. 培養團隊合作的能力
  * D. 瞭解資訊科技發展趨勢與具備國際視野
  * E. 具有專業及道德責任的認知


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  * Students can gain an understanding of the mathematical foundations of social network analysis (SNA). 
  * Students can practice various SNA methods using appropriate technologies, such as UCINET and R. 
  * Students can participate in various learning activities and conduct group projects with other students from different fields. 


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Week |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and Homework |  Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
In-class Hours |  Outside-of-class Hours  
W1 - Sept 02 |  Introduction & SM Data |  Syllabus Review / Intro. to SM / Data Collection and Data Management 1/2 **Note 1/2:** Dates to participate in full/half-day workshops, held on Saturday (2~3 times), will be determined and announced soon. **Note 2/2:** The entire course is designed to provide a total of 54 hours of learning time (16×3 + 6 hours) for the students. |  ASN Chs 1, 4 |  3 |  4.5  
W2 - Sept 09 |  SM Data |  Data Collection and Data Management 2/2 |  ASN Chs 5 |  3 |  4.5  
W3 - Sept 16 from 1:10 ~ 2:00 lecture and then Guest Talk from 2:30 |  Perspectives of SM and Interaction Design |  Research Design  (TBD free lunch) Sept15, 12:10~1:30 special talk delivered by Emeritus Prof. Dr. Lorna Uden from the Dept. of Computing, School of Digital, Tec. Innovation and Business, The Uni. of Staffordshire, UK |  ASN Ch3 |  3 |  4.5  
W4 - Sept 23 |  Visualization |  ASN Ch7 |  3 |  4.5  
W5 - Sept 30 |  Interactivity Design Essentials (1/2) |  ID Chs 3~7 |  3 |  4.5  
W6 - Oct 07 |  Mid-Autumn Festival (NO CLASS) Group project proposal (video links or PPT recordings) |  Online resources |  0 |  9  
W7 - Oct 14 |  Perspectives of SM and Evaluation |  *Interactivity Design Essentials (2/2) |  ID Chs 10~14 |  3 |  4.5  
W8 - Oct 21 |  Intro. to Inferential Statistics  |  ASN Ch14 |  3 |  4.5  
W9 - Oct 28 |  Guest Talk (ITMA-Ostfalia 1028): Topic to be announced  
also, ICAE International Conference 1203 |  |  3 |  4.5  
W10 - Nov 03 |  Perspectives of SM and Statistics |  Local/Group Node-level Measures |  ASN Chs 8, 10 |  3 |  4.5  
W11 - Nov 10 |  Centrality  |  ASN Ch 9 |  3 |  4.5  
W12 - Nov 17 |  Subgroups and Community Detection |  ASN Ch11 |  3 |  4.5  
W13 - Nov 24 |  Equivalence |  ASN Ch12 |  3 |  4.5  
W14 - Dec 01 |  AI-Powered SM Marketing |  Content Creation  |  Online resources |  3 |  4.5  
W15 - Dec 08 |  Engagement and Insights |  3 |  4.5  
W16 - Dec 15 |  Course Review and Conclude / Learning Feedback and Reflection Group project presentation (video links or PPT recordings) |  3 |  4.5  
*Demo Day
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_15%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_10%_
####  其他： Others: case study, hand-on practices 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
40% Workshop Participation - TBA
20% Individual Practices - two times in W6 and W12
10% Group project proposal - W6
30% Group project presentation - W16
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Textbooks**
Borgatti, S. P., Everett, M. G., Johnson, J. C., & Agneessens, F. (2024). Analyzing social networks (3rd eds). SAGE Publications Asia-Pacific Pte Ltd. **[ASN]**
Rogers Y, Sharp, H., & Preece, J. (2023). Interaction design: Beyond human-computer interaction (6th eds.). Wiley & Sons Inc. **[ID]**
**References**
  1. Borgatti, S. P., Everett, M. G., Johnson, J. C., & Agneessens, F. (2022). Analyzing social networks using R. SAGE Publications Asia-Pacific Pte Ltd. 
  2. UCInet Online Textbook https://faculty.ucr.edu/~hanneman/


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
•	NCCU Moodle
•	UCInet Software https://sites.google.com/site/ucinetsoftware/home
•	Steve Borgatti https://sites.google.com/site/steveborgatti/home
•	Social Network Analysis by Duke University's Mod-U channel on YouTube  
         https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL1M5TsfDV6Vs7tnHGNgowEUwJW-O8QVp5
•	The Historical Network Research Community https://www.youtube.com/@HistoricalNetworkResearch
•	Network Culture https://networkcultures.org/geert/ 
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Every Mon 4 ~ 5 pm
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBD
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
