國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：高等健康心理學
#####  Course Name: Advanced Health Psychology
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：752582001 Course No.752582001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_35_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：心理碩一、心理博一 Course Department:Psychology/G/1 
  * 授課老師：吳治勳 Instructor: WU CHIH-HSUN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
**[本課程對象為臨床組研究生]**
健康心理學由「健康」出發，基於Bio-Psycho-Social Model觀點，以「壓力—因應」的歷程來探討個人如何適應環境，維持健康。而心理病理學則是以由「疾病」的角度出發，探討臨床現象、診斷、病理及治療(目標為消除疾病)。本課程試圖同時由「健康」和「疾病」觀點來思考「不適應性/疾患」，並認識健康心理學如何應用於臨床上。
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 心理學專業能力 Professional competence in psychology
  * B. 研究能力 Research ability
  * C. 人際互動能力 Social skills
  * D. 多元文化關懷 Multiculturalism
  * E. 心理學專業能力 Professional competence in psychology
  * F. 研究能力 Research ability
  * G. 人際互動與領導能力 Social skills and leadership
  * H. 多元文化關懷 Multiculturalism


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
預計學習成效為：
**臨床組碩士班學生**
  1. 深入思考「健康」/「疾病」
  2. 認識Health Psychology與Bio-Psycho-Social Model
  3. 學習Stress Model及其臨床應用
  4. 學習Transdiagnostic Approach的心理病理機制
  5. 思辨各種心理疾病的診斷標準及心理病理機制


**臨床組博士班學生**(含前述)
  1. 整合壓力模式與心理病理模式
  2. 由個案概念化角度，探討「心理衡鑑」與「心理治療」
  3. 能簡要的整合說明各種心理疾病的可能壓力因應歷程/心理病理機制


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**上課進度****Class schedule**  
---  
Part 1每週學習投入時數：課堂三小時，課前與課後閱讀、討論、作業約十小時  
**時間** |  **課程內容** |  **作業**  
**9/2** |  **Course Introduction**
  1. S.Ch1 An Overview of Psychology and Health 
  2. T.Ch1 What is Health Psychology

|   
**9/9** |  **From Biopsychosocial Model to Psychopathology**
  1. B.Ch2 An integrative approach to Psychopathology
  2. Psychological Assessment: A Problem-solving approach, by Suhr, Ch1: Diagnosis: Conceptual Issues and Controversies.
  3. Psychopathology: History, Diagnosis, and empirical foundations, by Craighead, Ch2 and Ch3

|  Comment  
**9/16** |  **Stress, Coping and Health (1)**
  1. S.Ch3 Stress—Its Meaning, Impact, and Sources
  2. S.Ch4 Stress, Biopsychosocial Factors, And Illness
  3. S.Ch5 Coping with and Reducing Stress

|  Comment  
**9/23** |  **Stress, Coping and Health (2)**
  1. T.Ch6 Stress 
  2. T.Ch7 Coping, Resilience, & Social Support

|  Reflection  
**9/30** |  **Transdiagnostic Approach (1)** Readings 1~3 |  Comment  
**10/7** |  **Transdiagnostic Approach (2)** Readings 4~7 |  Reflection  
**10/14** |  **General Discussion (1)** In sickness and in Health? |  Class Discussion  
**10/21** |  **Stress, Coping and Health (3)** Readings 8~9 |  Comment  
**10/28** |  **Stress, Coping and Health (4)** Readings 10~12 |  Reflection  
**11/4** |  **Anxiety (1): GAD** Readings: 13 (MUST), 14~16(GROUP) |  Comment  
**11/11** |  **Anxiety (2): Panic Disorder** Readings: 17 (MUST), 18~20(GROUP) |  Comment  
**11/18** |  **PTSD** Readings: 21 (MUST), 22~24(GROUP) |  Comment  
**11/25** |  **Emotional Disorders** Readings: 25, 26(MUST), 27~30(GROUP) |  Comment  
**12/2** |  **Direct Route to Health** Readings: 31~30(GROUP) |  Comment  
**12/9** |  **General Discussion (2)** Maladaptation or Disorder? |  Class Discussion  
**12/16** |  **TERM FINAL** |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
課堂報告 (30%) 課堂討論 (25%) 課堂作業 (30%) 期末報告 (15%)
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Text Books：  
---  
  1. Sarafino, E. P. (2017). Health Psychology 9th ed. MA: John Willey & Sons, Inc. 

  
  1. Taylor, S. E. (2018). Health Psychology 10th ed. NY: McGraw-Hill Education.

  
  1. Barlow, D. H., Durand, V. M., & Hofmann, S. (2023). Psychopathology: An integrative approach to mental disorders. Cengage Learning Asia Pte Ltd.

  
Reading   
  1. Barlow, D.H., et al., The Origins of Neuroticism. Perspectives on Psychological Science, 2014. 9(5): p. 481-496.

  
  1. Barlow, D.H., et al., The Nature, Diagnosis, and Treatment of Neuroticism: Back to the Future. Clinical Psychological Science, 2014. 2(3): p. 344-365.

  
  1. Dalgleish, T., Black, M., Johnston, D., & Bevan, A. (2020). Transdiagnostic approaches to mental health problems: Current status and future directions. _Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology_ ,_88_(3), 179-195. 

  
  1. Gentes, E.L. and A.M. Ruscio, A meta-analysis of the relation of intolerance of uncertainty to symptoms of generalized anxiety disorder, major depressive disorder, and obsessive–compulsive disorder. Clinical Psychology Review, 2011. 31(6): p. 923-933.

  
  1. Fullana, M.A., et al., Risk and protective factors for anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorders: an umbrella review of systematic reviews and meta-analyses. Psychological Medicine, 2020. 50(8): p. 1300-1315.

  
  1. Naragon-Gainey, K., Meta-analysis of the relations of anxiety sensitivity to the depressive and anxiety disorders. Psychological Bulletin, 2010. 136(1): p. 128

  
  1. Sellbom, M., Y.S. Ben-Porath, and R.M. Bagby, On the hierarchical structure of mood and anxiety disorders: Confirmatory evidence and elaboration of a model of temperament markers. Journal of Abnormal Psychology, 2008. 117(3): p. 576

  
  1. Wheaton, B. (1996). The domains and boundaries of stress concepts. In Kaplan, H. B. (Ed.), Psychosocial stress: Perspectives on structure, theory, life-course, and methods. (pp. 29-70).

  
  1. Lazarus, R. S., & Folkman, S. (1984). Cognitive Appraisal Processes. In Lazarus, R. S., & Folkman, S. (Eds), Stress, appraisal, and coping (pp. 22-54). New York: Springer Pub. Co.

  
  1. Lazarus, R. S. (1991). The person-environment relationship, motivation, and coping. In Lazarus, R. S., Emotion and Adaptation (pp. 89-126). New York : Oxford University Press

  
  1. Folkman, S. & Moskowitz, J. T. (2004). Coping: Pitfalls and promise. Annual Review of Psychology, 55, 745-774.

  
  1. Aspinwall, L., & Taylor, S. E. (1997). A Stitch in Time: Self-Regulation and Proactive Coping. Psychological bulletin, 121, 417-436.

  
  1. Behar, E., DiMarco, I. D., Hekler, E. B., Mohlman, J., & Staples, A. M. (2009). Current theoretical models of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD): Conceptual review and treatment implications. Journal of Anxiety Disorders, 23(8), 1011-1023. https://doi.org/https://doi.org/10.1016/j.janxdis.2009.07.006

  
  1. Olatunji, B.O. and K.B. Wolitzky-Taylor, Anxiety sensitivity and the anxiety disorders: A meta-analytic review and synthesis. Psychological Bulletin, 2009. 135(6): p. 974-999.

  
  1. Mogg, K. and B.P. Bradley, Anxiety and Threat-Related Attention: Cognitive-Motivational Framework and Treatment. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 2018. 22(3): p. 225-240.

  
  1. Olatunji, B.O., et al., Worry and the anxiety disorders: A meta-analytic synthesis of specificity to GAD. Applied and Preventive Psychology, 2010. 14(1): p. 1-24.

  
  1. Bentley, K.H., et al., The Interactive Contributions of Perceived Control and Anxiety Sensitivity in Panic Disorder: A Triple Vulnerabilities Perspective. Journal of Psychopathology and Behavioral Assessment, 2013. 35(1): p. 57-64.

  
  1. Ohst, B. and B. Tuschen-Caffier, Catastrophic misinterpretation of bodily sensations and external events in panic disorder, other anxiety disorders, and healthy subjects: A systematic review and meta-analysis. PLOS ONE, 2018. 13(3): p. e0194493.

  
  1. Lissek, S., et al., Overgeneralization of Conditioned Fear as a Pathogenic Marker of Panic Disorder. American Journal of Psychiatry, 2010. 167(1): p. 47-55.

  
  1. Bouton, M.E., S. Mineka, and D.H. Barlow, A modern learning theory perspective on the etiology of panic disorder. Psychol Rev, 2001. 108(1): p. 4-32.

  
  1. Brewin, C.R., et al., Intrusive images in psychological disorders: characteristics, neural mechanisms, and treatment implications. Psychological review, 2010. 117(1): p. 210.

  
  1. Neuner, F., Physical and social trauma: Towards an integrative transdiagnostic perspective on psychological trauma that involves threats to status and belonging. Clinical Psychology Review, 2023. 99: p. 102219.

  
  1. McLean, C.P. and E.B. Foa, Emotions and emotion regulation in posttraumatic stress disorder. Current Opinion in Psychology, 2017. 14: p. 72-77.

  
  1. Nawijn, L., et al., Reward functioning in PTSD: A systematic review exploring the mechanisms underlying anhedonia. Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews, 2015. 51: p. 189-204.

  
  1. Watkins, E.R., Constructive and unconstructive repetitive thought. Psychological bulletin, 2008. 134(2): p. 163.

  
  1. Moncrieff, J., et al., The serotonin theory of depression: a systematic umbrella review of the evidence. Molecular Psychiatry, 2022.

  
  1. Carl, J.R., et al., Positive emotion regulation in emotional disorders: A theoretical review. Clinical psychology review, 2013. 33(3): p. 343-360.

  
  1. Evraire, L.E. and D.J. Dozois, An integrative model of excessive reassurance seeking and negative feedback seeking in the development and maintenance of depression. Clinical Psychology Review, 2011. 31(8): p. 1291-1303.

  
  1. Koster, E.H.W., et al., Understanding depressive rumination from a cognitive science perspective: The impaired disengagement hypothesis. Clinical Psychology Review, 2011. 31(1): p. 138-145.

  
  1. Trew, J.L., Exploring the roles of approach and avoidance in depression: An integrative model. Clinical Psychology Review, 2011. 31(7): p. 1156-1168.

  
  1. Miller, G. E., Chen, E., & Zhou, E. S. (2007). If it goes up, must it come down? Chronic stress and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis in humans. Psychological Bulletin, 133(1), 25-45. doi: 10.1037/0033-2909.133.1.25

  
  1. Segerstrom, S. C., & Miller, G. E. (2004). Psychological Stress and the Human Immune System: A Meta-Analytic Study of 30 Years of Inquiry. Psychological Bulletin, 130(4), 601-630. doi: 10.1037/0033-2909.130.4.601

  
  1. Bower, J. E., & Kuhlman, K. R. (2023). Psychoneuroimmunology: An Introduction to Immune-to-Brain Communication and Its Implications for Clinical Psychology. Annual Review of Clinical Psychology, 19, 331-359.

  
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:可用於協助整理資料，但不得用於報告生成 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/07/01 高等健康心理學114學年度第1學期.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
二 16:10-17:00 果夫樓辦公室
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
待聘
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
