國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：食物心理學
#####  Course Name: Food Psychology
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：752587001 Course No.752587001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_25_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：心理碩一、心理博一 Course Department:Psychology/G/1 
  * 授課老師：楊立行 Instructor: YANG LEE-XIENG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
The course provides a foundational understanding of food psychology, an essential area for examining why people eat the way they do. It covers topics such as biological and psychological mechanisms of hunger and satiety, sensory influences on taste and preference, food choice and decision-making, emotional and stress-related eating, mindful and intuitive eating, social and cultural factors, and the impact of marketing and the food environment. Students will explore how psychological and contextual factors shape eating behavior through lectures, discussions, and class activities. After completing this course, students are expected to explain core concepts in food psychology, recognize influences on eating beyond basic survival, and apply this knowledge to encourage healthier, more mindful food choices in daily life.
By the end of the course, students are expected to explain key concepts in food psychology, critically evaluate the multiple influences on eating, and apply this knowledge to promote balanced and mindful eating habits in both personal and societal contexts.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 心理學專業能力 Professional competence in psychology
  * B. 研究能力 Research ability
  * C. 人際互動能力 Social skills
  * D. 多元文化關懷 Multiculturalism
  * E. 心理學專業能力 Professional competence in psychology
  * F. 研究能力 Research ability
  * G. 人際互動與領導能力 Social skills and leadership
  * H. 多元文化關懷 Multiculturalism


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
After learning this course, students are expected to understand the topics about the biological and psychological mechanisms of hunger and satiety, the sensory influences on our taste and preference, the relationships between food choice and decision-making, the relationsips between stress and eating behavior, and the impact of marketing and the food environment.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Week Topic
Week 1 Introduction
Week 2 Sensory perception and food experience
Week 3 Food preference: gene-environment interactions
Week 4 Emotional and mood influences
Week 5 Eating behavior and decision making
Week 6 Obesity
Week 7 Eating disorders
Week 8 Midterm examination
Week 9 Mindful and intuitive eating
Week 10 Food as comfort and friendship
Week 11 Eating as social ritual
Week 12 The regulation of hunger and satiety
Week 13 Social and cultural factors on eating behavior
Week 14 Marketing and environment
Week 15 Influences of COVID-19 on food choice
Week 16 Final examination
In addition to the class hours, at least 6 hours every week are expected for preparting class presentation and discussion.
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_50%_
####  其他： Others: 課堂報告發表 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Students will be assigned papers to read for presentation and discussion every week. The final grade of students will be mainly based on the performance of students' oral presentation and their involvement in discussions in classes.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
References
Avery, J. A., Liu, A. G., Ingeholm, J. E., Riddell, C. D., Gotts, S. J., & Martin, A. (2020). Taste quality representation in the human brain. _The Journal of Neuroscience, 40_(5), 1042-1052.
Barakat, S., McLean, S. A., Bryant, E., Le, A., Marks, P. National Eating Disorder Research Consortium, Touyz. S., & Maguire, S. (2023). Risk factors for eating disorders: Findings from a rapid review. _Journal of Eating Disorders, 11_(8), https://doi.org/10.1186/s40337-022-00717-4.
Blom, S. S.A.H., Gillebaart, M., De Boer, F., van der Lann, N., & De Ridder, D. T.D. (2021). Under pressure: Nudging increases healthy food choice in a virtual reality supermarket, irrespective of system 1 reasoning. _Appetite, 160,_ https://doi.org/10.1016/j.appet.2021.105116.
Butryn, M. L., Webb, V., & Wadden, T. A. (2011). Behavioral treatment of obesity. _Psychiatric Clinics of North America, 34_(4), 841-859.
Cohen, D. A., & Babey, S. H. (2012). Contextual influences on eating behaviors: Heuristic processing and dietary choices. _Obesity Review, 13_(9), 766-779.
Fairburn, C. G., & Harrison, P. J. (2003). Eating disorders. _Lancet, 361,_ 407-416.
Hare, T. A., Camerer, C. F., & Rangel. A. (2009). Self-control in decision-making involves modulation of the vmPFC valuation system. _Science, 324,_ 646-648.
Katterman, S. N., Kleinman, B. M., Hood, M. M., Nackers, L. M., & Corsica, J. A. (2014). Mindfulness meditation as an intervention for binge eating, emotional eating, and weight loss: A systematic review. _Eating Behaviors, 15,_ 197-204.
Konttinen, H., Männistö, S., Sarlio-Lähteenkorva, S., Silventoinen, K., & Haukkala, A. (2010). Emotional eating, depressive symptoms and self-reported food consumption. A population-based study. _Appetite, 54,_ 473-479.
Kristeller, J. L., & Wolever, R. Q. (2010). Mindfulness-based eating awareness Training for treating binge eating distorders: The conceptual foundation. _Eating Disorders, 19_(1), 49-61.
Lowe, M. R., & Butryn, M. L. (2007). Hedonic hunger: A new dimension of appetite? _Physiology & Behavior, 91,_ 432-439.
Macht, M. (2008). How emotions affect eating: A five-way model. _ScienceDirect, 50,_ 1-11.
Philp, M., Jacobson, J., & Pancer, E. (2022). Predicting social media engagement with computer vision: An examination of food marketing on Instagram. _Journal of Business Research, 149_ , 736-747.
Spence, C. (2015). Multisensory flavor perception. _Cell, 161,_ 24-35.
Spence, C. (2024)._On the psychological effects of food color._ in Handbook on Natural Pigments in Food and Beverages, 33-60.
Stice, E. (2002). Risk and maintenance factors for eating pathology: A meta-analytic review. _Psychological Bulletin, 128_(5), 825-848.
Taquet, M., Geddes, J. R., Luciano, S., & Harrison. P. J. (2021). Incidence and outcomes of eating disorders during the COVID-19 pandemic. _The British Journal of Psychiatry, 220_(5), 262-264.
Wansink, B. (2004). Environmental factors that increase the food intake and consumption volume of unknowing consumers. _Annual review of Nutrition, 24,_ 455-479.
Zanatta, F., Mari, S., Adorni, R., Labra, M., Matacena, R., Zenga M., & D’Addario, M. (2022). The role of selected psychological factors in healthy-sustainable food consumption behaviors during the COVID-19 pandemic. _d_ https://doi.org/10.3390/foods11131944.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
TBA
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
