國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：類別學習專題
#####  Course Name: Category Learning
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：752634001 Course No.752634001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：心理碩一、心理博一 Course Department:Psychology/G/1 
  * 授課老師：楊立行 Instructor: YANG LEE-XIENG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
Category learning is fundamental to human cognition, with which miscellaneous objects can be grouped or separated as different categories, which are regarded as the units representing the world we learn. Thus, understanding how categories are formed can help us understand how our cognitive system may function, hence benefiting unveiling the secret of human intelligence and designing human-like machines. Since 1960's, psychologists have proposed a large number of models for accounting for human categorization and category leanring. In this course, the most influential models of category learning will be taught to students, together with the theoretical debates between them. After learning this course, students are expected to know what category learning is referred to, how to conduct behavioral experiments for examining category learning, what the important issues are in category learning, and how to develop a computational model for category learning.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 心理學專業能力 Professional competence in psychology
  * B. 研究能力 Research ability
  * C. 人際互動能力 Social skills
  * D. 多元文化關懷 Multiculturalism
  * E. 心理學專業能力 Professional competence in psychology
  * F. 研究能力 Research ability
  * G. 人際互動與領導能力 Social skills and leadership
  * H. 多元文化關懷 Multiculturalism


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Students are expected to understand the main issues in category learning, the significant models of category leanring, and how to design and conduct experiments for category learning after learning this course.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Week Topic
Week 1 Introduction
Week 2 Classic theory for category learning
Week 3 Challenges to classic theory and prototype model
Week 4 Challenges to prototyep model and exemplar models (the GCM)
Week 5 Rule model (the GRT): Return of classic theory
Week 6 Debates between exemplar models and the GRT
Week 7 ALCOVE: Exemplar model on neural network architecture 
Week 8 Midterm examination
Week 9 SUSTAIN: Mutiple-prototyp model on neural network architecture 
Week 10 Debates between exemplar models and prototype models
Week 11 COVIS: Category learinng model in neurocognition approach 
Week 12 Hybrid models
Week 13 Bayesian approach
Week 14 Category variability effect 
Week 15 Single-category based categorization
Week 16 Final examination
In addition to class hours, at least 6 hours each week are expected for preparing for class discussions.
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_50%_
####  其他： Others: 課堂發表 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Students will be assigned papers to read and present in classes. The final grade of students will be mainly based on the performance of students' oral presentation and their involvement in discussions in classes.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
References
Anderson, J. R. (1991). The adaptive character of thought. Hillsdale, NJ:Erlbaum.
Anderson, J. R., & Fincham, J. M. (1996). Categorization and sensitivity to correlation. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 22, 259–277.
Ashby, F. G., Alfonso-Reese, L. A., Turken, A. U., & Waldron, E. M. (1998). A neuropsychological theory of multiple systems in category learning. Psychological Review, 105, 442–481.
Ashby, F. G., & Maddox, W. T. (1992). Complex decision rules in categorization: Contrasting novice and experienced performance. Journal of Experimental Psychological: Human Perception and Performance, 18, 50–71.
Ashby, F. G., & Maddox, W. T. (1993). Relations between prototype, exemplar, and decision bound models of categorization. Journal of Mathematical Psychology, 37, 372–400.
Ashby, F. G., Maddox, W. T., & Bohil, C. J. (2002). Observational versus feedback training in rule-based and information-integration category learning. Memory and Cognition, 30, 666–677.
Ashby, F. G., & Townsend, J. T. (1986). Varieties of perceptual independence. Psychological Review, 93, 154–179.
Denton, S. E., Kruschke, J. K., & Erickson, M. (2008). Rule-based extrapolation: A continuing challenge for exemplar models. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 15 (4), 780–786.
Erickson, M. A., & Kruschke, J. K. (1998). Rules and exemplars in category learning. Journal of Experimental Psychological: General, 127, 107–140.
Erickson, M. A., & Kruschke, J. K. (2002). Rule-based extrapolation in perceptual categorization. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 9, 160–168.
Kruschke, J. K. (1992). ALCOVE: An exemplar-based connectionist model of category learning. Psychological Review, 99, 22–44.
Lewandowsky, S., Roberts, L., & Yang, L.-X. (2006). Knowledge partitioning in categorization: Boundary conditions. Memory & Cognition, 34 (8), 1676–1688.
Love, B. C., Medin, D. L., & Gureckis, T. M. (2004). SUSTAIN: A network model of category learning. Psychological Review, 111, 309–332.
Maddox, W. T., & Ashby, F. G. (1993). Comparing decision bound and exemplar models of categorization. Perception & Psychophysics, 53, 49–70.
Maddox, W. T., & Ashby, F. G. (2004). Dissociating explicit and procedural-learning based systems of perceptual category learning. Behavioural Processes, 66, 309–332.
Maddox, W. T., Ashby, F. G., & Bohil, C. J. (2003). Delayed feedback effects on rule-based and information-integration category learning. Journal of Experimental Psychological: Learning, Memory and Cognition, 29, 650–662.
Maddox, W. T., Ashby, F. G., Ing, A. D., & Pickering, A. D. (2004). Disrupting feedback processing interferes with rule-based but not information-integration category learning. Memory and Cognition, 32, 582–591.
Nosofsky, R. M. (1986). Attention, similarity, and the identification-categorization relationship. Journal of Experimental Psychological: General, 115, 39–57.
Nosofsky, R. M. (1987). Attention and learning processes in the identification and classification of integral stimuli. Journal of Experimental Psychological: Learning, Memory and Cognition, 13, 87–108.
Nosofsky, R. M., & Johansen, M. K. (2000). Exemplar-based accounts of "multiple-system" phenomena in perceptual categorization. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 7 (3), 375–402.
Nosofsky, R. M., & Palmeri, T. J. (1997). An exemplar-based random walk model of speeded classification. Psychological Review, 104, 266–300.
Nosofsky, R. M., Palmeri, T. J., & McKinley, S. C. (1994). Rule-plus-exception model of classification learning. Psychological Review, 101, 53–79.
Nosofsky, R. M., & Zaki, S. R. (1998). Dissociations between categorization and recognition in amnesic and normal individuals: An exemplar-based interpretation. Psychological Science, 9 (4), 247–255.
Sanders, C. A., & Nosofsky, R. M. (2018). Using deep-learning represetnations of complex natural stimuli as input to psychological models of classification. In C. Kalish, M. Rau, J. Zhu, & T. Rogers (Eds.), Cogsci 2018 (pp. 1025–1030).
Sanders, C. A., & Nosofsky, R. M. (2020). Training deep networks to construct a psychological feature space for a natural-object category domain. Computational Brain & Behavior, 3, 229–251.
Stewart, N., & Brown, G. D. A. (2005). Similarity and dissimilarity as evidence in perceptual categorization. Journal of Mathematical Psychology, 49, 403–409.
Yang, L.-X., & Chiang, P.-A. (2024). Post-training flexibility in category learning. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 31, 1833–184.
Yang, L.-X., & Lewandowsky, S. (2003). Context-gated knowledge partitioning in categorization. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 29, 663–679.
Yang, L.-X., & Lewandowsky, S. (2004). Knowledge partitioning in categorization: Constraints on exemplar models. Journal of Experimental Psychological: Learning, Memory and Cognition, 30, 1045–1064.
Yang, L.-X., & Wang, H.-T. (2014, July). Order effect and time varying categories. In P. Bello, M. Guarini, M. McShane, & B. Scassellati (Eds.), Proceedings of the 36th annual conference of the cognitive science society (pp. 3125–3130).
Zaki, S. R., & Nosofsky, R. M. (2001). Exemplar accounts of blending and distinctiveness effects in perceptual old-new recognition. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 27 (4), 1022–1041.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
TBA
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
