國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：文化心理學研究 
#####  Course Name: Research in Culture Psychology
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：752667001 Course No.752667001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：心理碩一、心理博一 Course Department:Psychology/G/1 
  * 授課老師：吳庭達 Instructor: NG TING-TAT 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
Cultural psychology is the scientific study of how cultures affect the thoughts, feelings, and behaviors of individuals. In this course, we will have an in-depth discussion on the theories, concepts, and methods of cultural psychology. We will also discuss how cultures reflect and shape the psychological processes of individuals based on recent empirical research. Topics of this course include self and personality, motivation, cognition and perception, emotions, morality, etc., which are closely linked to other disciplines of psychology such as social psychology, cognitive psychology, and developmental psychology. This course will adopt a seminar approach in which students will take turns to present and lead the in-class discussion based on the assigned readings. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 心理學專業能力 Professional competence in psychology
  * B. 研究能力 Research ability
  * C. 人際互動能力 Social skills
  * D. 多元文化關懷 Multiculturalism
  * E. 心理學專業能力 Professional competence in psychology
  * F. 研究能力 Research ability
  * G. 人際互動與領導能力 Social skills and leadership
  * H. 多元文化關懷 Multiculturalism


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
**Course Objectives** |  **Assessment Tools**  
---|---  
Submission of discussion questions |  Class discussion |  Class presentation |  Brief research proposal  
Critically evaluate the theories and concepts of cultural psychology |  ※ |  ※ |  ※ |   
Understand the importance of cultures in influencing the psychological processes of individuals |  |  ※ |  ※ |   
Critically evaluate the credibility and generalizability of recent empirical findings of cultural psychology |  ※ |  ※ |  ※ |   
Apply appropriate methodology to design empirical studies of cultural psychology |  |  |  |  ※  
Apply the knowledge of cultural psychology to other disciplines of psychology as well as real-life contexts |  ※ |  ※ |  |  ※  
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀****(****暫定****)** **Content and Reading Assignment****(Tentative)** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities****and Homework** |  **學習投入時間****Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授****In-class Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside- of-class** **Hours**  
1 (9/3) |  Introduction to cultural psychology |  Heine (2020) Ch. 1, 2 |  Lecture and class discussion |  3 |  3  
2 (9/10) |  Methods of cultural psychology |  Heine (2020) Ch. 4 |  Lecture and class discussion |  3 |  3  
3 (9/17) |  Development and socialization |  Cheung, Chudek, & Heine (2011) Hartshorne et al. (2018) |  Lecture, class presentation and discussion |  3 |  6  
4 (9/24) |  Individualism and collectivism |  Hamamura (2012) Vishkin et al. (2023) |  Class presentation and discussion |  3 |  6  
5 (10/1) |  Gender and social class |  Kraus et al. (2017) Varnum & Grossmann (2016) Chan et al. (2021) |  Class presentation and discussion |  3 |  6  
6 (10/8) |  Self and personality |  Chiu et al. (1997) Cheung, van de Vijver, & Leong (2011) McCrae & Terracciano (2005) |  Class presentation and discussion |  3 |  6  
7 (10/15) |  Motivation |  Sedikides et al. (2003) {Heine (2005) +  
Sedikides et al. (2005)} (_same presenter_) Heine & Hamamura (2007) |  Class presentation and discussion |  3 |  6  
8 (10/22) |  Cognition and perception |  Nisbett et al. (2001) Hong et al. (2000) |  Class presentation and discussion |  3 |  6  
9 (10/29) |  Emotions |  Jack et al. (2016) Ortony (2021) Coles et al (2023) |  Class presentation and discussion |  3 |  6  
10 (11/5) |  Interpersonal relationships |  Thomson et al. (2018) Wu et al. (2016) Walter et al. (2020) |  Class presentation and discussion |  3 |  6  
11 (11/12) |  Morality |  Buchtel et al. (2015) Graham et al. (2016) Atari et al. (2023) |  Class presentation and discussion |  3 |  6  
12 (11/19) |  Cooperation |  Wong & Hong (2005) Balliet & Van Lange (2013) |  Class presentation and discussion |  3 |  6  
13 (11/26) |  Methodological issues & multiculturalism |  Kahalon et al. (2022) López-Rodríguez et al. (2022) |  Class presentation and discussion |  3 |  6  
14 (12/3) |  Proposal outline presentation I |  Proposal outline presentation I |  Class presentation and discussion |  3 |  6  
15 (12/10) |  Proposal outline presentation II |  Proposal outline presentation II |  Class presentation and discussion |  3 |  6  
16 (12/17) |  Research Proposal Preparation |  Research Proposal Preparation |  Research Proposal Submission |  3 |  6  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_35%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_35%_
####  其他： Others: Class presentation 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Submission of discussion questions: 15%
  * Students are required to submit discussion questions based on the assigned readings before each class


Class discussion: 20%
  * Students are expected to actively engage in in-class discussion


Class presentation: 30%
  * Students take turns to present and lead the in-class discussion based on the assigned readings


Brief research proposal: 35%
  * Students need to submit a brief research proposal related to cultural psychology


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Assigned readings (Tentative):**
Week 3:
Cheung, B. Y., Chudek, M., & Heine, S. J. (2011). Evidence for a sensitive period for acculturation: Younger immigrants report acculturating at a faster rate.  _Psychological Science_ ,  _22_(2), 147-152.
Hartshorne, J. K., Tenenbaum, J. B., & Pinker, S. (2018). A critical period for second language acquisition: Evidence from 2/3 million English speakers.  _Cognition_ ,  _177_ , 263-277.
Week 4: 
Hamamura, T. (2012). Are cultures becoming individualistic? A cross-temporal comparison of individualism–collectivism in the United States and Japan.  _Personality and Social Psychology Review_ ,  _16_(1), 3-24.
Vishkin, A., Kitayama, S., Berg, M. K., Diener, E., Gross-Manos, D., Ben-Arieh, A., & Tamir, M. (2023). Adherence to emotion norms is greater in individualist cultures than in collectivist cultures.  _Journal of Personality and Social Psychology_ ,  _124_(6), 1256-1276.
Week 5:
Kraus, M. W., Park, J. W., & Tan, J. J. (2017). Signs of social class: The experience of economic inequality in everyday life.  _Perspectives on Psychological Science_ ,  _12_(3), 422-435.
Varnum, M. E., & Grossmann, I. (2016). Pathogen prevalence is associated with cultural changes in gender equality.  _Nature Human Behaviour_ ,  _1_(1), 1-4.
Chan, M., Cheung, F., Lau, C., & Ma, T. F. (2021). Global trends in cross-cultural endorsement of social mobility: Evidence from 167 countries.  _American Psychologist_ ,  _76_(6), 917-932.
Week 6:
Chiu, C. Y., Dweck, C. S., Tong, J. Y. Y., & Fu, J. H. Y. (1997). Implicit theories and conceptions of morality.  _Journal of Personality and Social Psychology_ ,  _73_(5), 923-940.
Cheung, F. M., van de Vijver, F. J., & Leong, F. T. (2011). Toward a new approach to the study of personality in culture.  _American Psychologist_ ,  _66_(7), 593-603.
McCrae, R. R., & Terracciano, A. (2005). Personality profiles of cultures: aggregate personality traits.  _Journal of Personality and Social Psychology_ ,  _89_(3), 407-425.
Week 7:
Sedikides, C., Gaertner, L., & Toguchi, Y. (2003). Pancultural self-enhancement.  _Journal of Personality and Social Psychology_ ,  _84_(1), 60-79.
{ Heine, S. J. (2005). Where is the evidence for pancultural self-enhancement? A reply to Sedikides, Gaertner, and Toguchi (2003).  _Journal of Personality and Social Psychology_ ,  _89_(4), 531-538. +
Sedikides, C., Gaertner, L., & Vevea, J. L. (2005). Pancultural self-enhancement reloaded: A meta-analytic reply to Heine (2005).  _Journal of Personality and Social Psychology_ ,  _89_(4), 539-551. } _*Same presenter for the two papers_
Heine, S. J., & Hamamura, T. (2007). In search of East Asian self-enhancement.  _Personality and Social Psychology Review_ ,  _11_(1), 4-27.
Week 8:
Hong, Y. Y., Morris, M. W., Chiu, C. Y., & Benet-Martinez, V. (2000). Multicultural minds: A dynamic constructivist approach to culture and cognition.  _American Psychologist_ ,  _55_(7), 709-720.
Nisbett, R. E., Peng, K., Choi, I., & Norenzayan, A. (2001). Culture and systems of thought: holistic versus analytic cognition.  _Psychological Review_ ,  _108_(2), 291-310.
Week 9:
Jack, R. E., Sun, W., Delis, I., Garrod, O. G., & Schyns, P. G. (2016). Four not six: Revealing culturally common facial expressions of emotion.  _Journal of Experimental Psychology: General_ ,  _145_(6), 708-730.
Ortony, A. (2021). Are All “Basic Emotions” Emotions? A Problem for the (Basic) Emotions Construct.  _Perspectives on Psychological Science_ , _17_(1), 41-61.
Coles, N. A., Gaertner, L., Frohlich, B., Larsen, J. T., & Basnight-Brown, D. M. (2023). Fact or artifact? Demand characteristics and participants’ beliefs can moderate, but do not fully account for, the effects of facial feedback on emotional experience.  _Journal of Personality and Social Psychology_ ,  _124_(2), 287-310.
Week 10:
Thomson, R., Yuki, M., Talhelm, T., Schug, J., Kito, M., Ayanian, A. H., ... & Visserman, M. L. (2018). Relational mobility predicts social behaviors in 39 countries and is tied to historical farming and threat.  _Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences_ ,  _115_(29), 7521-7526.
Wu, T. F., Cross, S. E., Wu, C. W., Cho, W., & Tey, S. H. (2016). Choosing your mother or your spouse: Close relationship dilemmas in Taiwan and the United States.  _Journal of Cross-Cultural Psychology_ ,  _47_(4), 558-580.
Walter, K. V., Conroy-Beam, D., Buss, D. M., Asao, K., Sorokowska, A., Sorokowski, P., ... & Zupančič, M. (2020). Sex differences in mate preferences across 45 countries: A large-scale replication.  _Psychological Science_ ,  _31_(4), 408-423.
Week 11:
Buchtel, E. E., Guan, Y., Peng, Q., Su, Y., Sang, B., Chen, S. X., & Bond, M. H. (2015). Immorality east and west: Are immoral behaviors especially harmful, or especially uncivilized?.  _Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin_ ,  _41_(10), 1382-1394.
Graham, J., Meindl, P., Beall, E., Johnson, K. M., & Zhang, L. (2016). Cultural differences in moral judgment and behavior, across and within societies.  _Current Opinion in Psychology_ ,  _8_ , 125-130.
Atari, M., Haidt, J., Graham, J., Koleva, S., Stevens, S. T., & Dehghani, M. (2023). Morality beyond the WEIRD: How the nomological network of morality varies across cultures.  _Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 125_(5), 1157–1188.
Week 12:
Balliet, D., & Van Lange, P. A. (2013). Trust, punishment, and cooperation across 18 societies: A meta-analysis.  _Perspectives on Psychological Science_ ,  _8_(4), 363-379.
Wong, R. Y. M., & Hong, Y. Y. (2005). Dynamic influences of culture on cooperation in the prisoner's dilemma.  _Psychological Science_ ,  _16_(6), 429-434.
Week 13:
Kahalon, R., Klein, V., Ksenofontov, I., Ullrich, J., & Wright, S. C. (2022). Mentioning the sample’s country in the article’s title leads to bias in research evaluation.  _Social Psychological and Personality Science_ ,  _13_(2), 352-361.
López-Rodríguez, L., Halperin, E., Vázquez, A., Cuadrado, I., Navas, M., & Gómez, Á. (2022). Awareness of the psychological bias of naïve realism can increase acceptance of cultural differences.  _Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin_ ,  _48_(6), 888-900.
**Other references:**
Heine, S. J. (2020). _Cultural psychology_(4th ed.). Norton.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Students must declare whether and how they have used any kind of generative AI to assist with their assignments. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office location: Zhi Xi Building (志希樓) 070225 (By appointment)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBC
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
