國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：幼兒發展與學習
#####  Course Name: Developmental Psychology and Learning in Young Children
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：752865001 Course No.752865001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：心理碩一、心理博一、心理碩二、心理博二 Course Department:Psychology/G/1&2 
  * 授課老師：黃啟泰 Instructor: HUANG CHI-TAI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四78E Session: thu16-19


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is an advanced introduction of developmental psychology. It covers a range of topics that have been considered central to developmental processes: Methods for studying development, models of typical and atypical development, and different areas of research on cognitive and social development. These topics will be reviewed with in-depth discussion in the class.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEFGH雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 心理學專業能力 Professional competence in psychology
  * B. 研究能力 Research ability
  * C. 人際互動能力 Social skills
  * D. 多元文化關懷 Multiculturalism
  * E. 心理學專業能力 Professional competence in psychology
  * F. 研究能力 Research ability
  * G. 人際互動與領導能力 Social skills and leadership
  * H. 多元文化關懷 Multiculturalism


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Through exploring the following topics, students will develop the ability to read psychological literature, gain insight into research methods and the process of theory construction in psychology, and cultivate independent thinking and critical academic skills.
Models of development
Causal perception
Core cognition of object
Psychological reasoning in infancy
Rationality, agency, & causality
Theory of mind (ToM)
Executive function (EF)
Developmental relationships between ToM & EF
Social learning & cultural transmission
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**次****Week** |  **課程主題****Course Theme** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀****Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Activity and Homework** |  **學習投入時數** **Estimated time devoted to coursework per week**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授****Lecture hours** |  **課程前後****Preparation**  
1 |  09/01 Introduction |  Course syllabus, instructor, & evaluation methods |  **Teaching Activities:** Introduction, lectures |  3.0 |  4.5  
2 |  09/08 Models of development 1 |  Research issues in developmental psychology Assigned reading：See attachment |  **Teaching Activities:** Lectures, student presentations, and in-class discussions  
**Assignments:** Previewing and reviewing assigned readings |  3.0 |  4.5  
3 |  09/15 Models of development 2 |  Perspectives on developmental psychology: Cognitive gadgets; ethology; neuro-constructivism; sociocultural theory. Assigned reading：See attachment |  **Teaching Activities:** Lectures, student presentations, and in-class discussions  
**Assignments:** Previewing and reviewing assigned readings |  3.0 |  4.5  
4 |  09/22 Object cognition |  Perspectives on A-not-B error Assigned reading：See attachment |  **Teaching Activities:** Lectures, student presentations, and in-class discussions  
**Assignments:** Previewing and reviewing assigned readings |  3.0 |  4.5  
5 |  09/29 教師節補假 |  |  |  |   
6 |  10/06 中秋節 |  |  |  |   
7 |  10/13 Object cognition |  Perspectives on A-not-B error Assigned reading：See attachment |  **Teaching Activities:** Lectures, student presentations, and in-class discussions  
**Assignments:** Previewing and reviewing assigned readings |  3.0 |  4.5  
8 |  10/20 Origins of goal-directedness |  Perspectives on infant goal attribution Assigned reading：See attachment |  **Teaching Activities:** Lectures, student presentations, and in-class discussions  
**Assignments:** Previewing and reviewing assigned readings |  3.0 |  4.5  
9 |  10/27 Origins of goal-directedness |  Perspectives on infant goal attribution Assigned reading：See attachment |  **Teaching Activities:** Lectures, student presentations, and in-class discussions  
**Assignments:** Previewing and reviewing assigned readings |  3.0 |  4.5  
10 |  11/03 Social learning in contexts |  Evolutionary perspectives on social learning Assigned reading：See attachment |  **Teaching Activities:** Lectures, student presentations, and in-class discussions  
**Assignments:** Previewing and reviewing assigned readings |  3.0 |  4.5  
11 |  11/10 Social learning in contexts |  Developmental perspectives on social learning Assigned reading：See attachment |  **Teaching Activities:** Lectures, student presentations, and in-class discussions  
**Assignments:** Previewing and reviewing assigned readings |  3.0 |  4.5  
12 |  11/17 Theory of mind |  Developing a theory of mind Assigned reading：See attachment |  **Teaching Activities:** Lectures, student presentations, and in-class discussions  
**Assignments:** Previewing and reviewing assigned readings |  3.0 |  4.5  
13 |  11/24 Executive function |  Developing executive function Assigned reading：See attachment |  **Teaching Activities:** Lectures, student presentations, and in-class discussions  
**Assignments:** Previewing and reviewing assigned readings |  3.0 |  4.5  
14 |  12/01 ToM & EF |  Developmental relationships between theory of mind and executive functioning Assigned reading：See attachment |  **Teaching Activities:** Lectures, student presentations, and in-class discussions  
**Assignments:** Previewing and reviewing assigned readings |  3.0 |  4.5  
15 |  12/08 Student oral presentations |  Final project report & in-class discussions |  **Teaching Activities:** Student presentations and discussions  
**Assignments:** Reading and reviewing relevant literature before and after class |  3.0 |  4.5  
16 |  12/15 Student oral presentatons |  Final project report & in-class discussions |  **Teaching Activities:** Student presentations and discussions  
**Assignments:** Reading and reviewing relevant literature before and after class |  3.0 |  4.5  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_30%_
####  其他： Others: 書報閱讀報告 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
In-class performance: 30%; Essay questions: 20%; final report: 50% (at least 4000 words & 10 citations).
If you may have any other questions, please refer to in-class instructions.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Bjorklund, D. (2018). Children`s thinking: Cognitive development and individual differences (6th edition). Wadsworth.
認知發展：好學的大腦(黃啟泰審譯)。雙葉書廊。
Goswami, U. (2020). Cognitive development: The learning brain. Psychology Press.
Heyes, C. (2018).Cognitive Gadgets: The cultural evolution of thinking. The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press.
Carey, S. (2009). The origins of concepts. Oxford University Press.
**In-class paper**
*The listed references are for reference only. The actual readings and articles used in class will be based on the materials assigned during the course.*
_Models of development_
Heyes, C. M. (2003). Four routes of cognitive evolution. _Psychological Review, 110_(4), 713–727.Heyes, C. M. (in press). Précis of Cognitive Gadgets: The Cultural Evolution of Thinking. _The Behavioral and Brain Sciences_.
_Piagetian paradigm_
Bjorklund, D. (2005). Piaget and the Neo-Piagetians. In D. Bjorklund, _Children’s thinking_ (pp.79-117). Wadsworth. 
Sigler, R. (2005). Piaget’s theory of development. In R. Sigler, _Children’s thinking_ (pp.26-64). Pearson. 
Smith, L. (2002). Piaget’s model. In U. Goswami (Ed.), _Blackwell Handbook of Childhood Cognitive Development_(pp. 515-537). Oxford: Blackwell.
_Information processing model_
Bjorklund, D. (2005). Information processing approaches. In D. Bjorklund, _Children’s Thinking_ (pp.123-138; 142-145). Wadsworth. 
Kail, R. (1997). Processing time, imagery, and spatial memory. _Journal of Experimental Child Psychology_ , 64, 67-78. 
Lorsbach, T. & Reimer, J. (1997). Developmental changes in the inhibition of previously relevant information, _Journal of Experimental Child Psychology_ , 64, 317-342. 
Courage, M. L., & Howe, M. L. (2001). Long-term retention in 3.5-month-olds: familiarization time and individual differences in attentional style. _Journal of Experimental Child Psychology_ , 79, 271-293. 
Courage, M. L., Howe, M. L., & Squires, S. E. (2004). Individual differences in 3.5-month-olds’ visual attention: what do they predict at 1 year? _Infant Behavior and Development_ , 27, 19-30.
_Strategy choice (cognitive evolution) model_
Siegler, R., & Alibali, M. (2005). Theories of cognitive evolution. In R. Siegler & M. Alibali, _Children’s Thinking_ (pp.97-104; 384-389; 403-409). Prentice Hall. 
Siegler, R. S., & Crowley, K. (1991). The microgenetic method: A direct means for studying cognitive development. _American Psychologist_ , 46, 606-620. 
Siegler, R. S., & Lemaire, P. (1997). Older and younger adults` strategy choices in multiplication: Testing predictions of ASCM via the choice/no choice method. _Journal of Experimental Psychology: General_ , 126, 71-92. 
Siegler, R. S., & Booth, J. L. (2004). Development of numerical estimation in young children. _Child Development_ , 75, 428-444.
_Dynamic system approach_
Bjorklund, D. (2005). Dynamic system approach. In D. Bjorklund, _Children’s Thinking_ (pp.14-17). Wadsworth. 
Smith, L., & Thelen, E. (2003). Development as a dynamic system. _Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 7_ , 343-348. 
Siegler, R. S., & Stern, E. (2002). A microgenetic/cross-sectional study of matrix completion: comparing short-term and long-term change. _Child Development, 73_ , 793-809. 
Galloway, J., & Thelen, E. (2004). Feet first: Object exploration in young infants. _Infant Behavior and Development, 27_ , 107-112. 
Spencer, J. P., Smith, L., & Thelen, E. (2001). Tests of a dynamic systems account of the A-not-B error: The influence of prior experience on the spatial memory abilities of two-year-olds. _Child Development, 72_ , 1327-1346.
_Perception of causality_
Kominsky, J. F., Li, Y., & Carey, S. (2022). Infants’ attributions of insides and animacy in causal interactions. _Cognitive Science_ , _46_(1), e13087. https://doi.org/10.1111/cogs.13087
Kotovsky, L., & Baillargeon, R. (2000). Reasoning about collisions involving inert objects in 7.5‐month‐old infants. _Developmental science_ , _3_(3), 344–359. https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-7687.00129
Muentener, P., & Carey, S. (2010). Infants’ causal representations of state change events. _Cognitive psychology_ , _61_(2), 63–86. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cogpsych.2010.02.001
Saxe, R., & Carey, S. (2006). The perception of causality in infancy. _Acta psychologica_ , _123_(1-2), 144–165. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.actpsy.2006.05.005
Saxe, R., Tenenbaum, J. B., & Carey, S. (2005). Secret agents: Inferences about hidden causes by 10-and 12-month-old infants. _Psychological Science, 16_(12), 995–1001. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-9280.2005.01649.x
Saxe, R., Tzelnic, T., & Carey, S. (2007). Knowing who dunnit: Infants identify the causal agent in an unseen causal interaction. _Developmental Psychology, 43_(1), 149–158. https://doi.org/10.1037/0012-1649.43.1.149
_The concepts of goal and intention in infancy_
Tomasello, M., & Carpenter, M. (2007). Shared intentionality. _Developmental Science, 10_ , 121–125.
Csibra, G. (2003). Teleological and referential understanding of action in infancy. _Philosophic Transactions of the Royal Society, 358_ , 447-458. 
Gergely, G., & Csibra, G. (2006). Sylvia’s recipe: The role of imitation and pedagogy in the transmission of cultural knowledge. In S. Levenson & N. Enfield (Eds.), _Roots of human sociality: Culture, cognition, and human interaction_ (pp. 229–255). Oxford, England: Berg. 
Baldwin, D. A., Baird, J. A., Saylor, M. M., & Clark, M. A. (2001). Infants parse dynamic action. _Child Development, 72_ , 708-717. 
Behne, T., Carpenter, M., Call, J., & Tomasello, M. (2005). Unwilling versus unable: Infants’ understanding of intentional action. _Developmental Psychology, 41_ , 328-337. 
Buresh, J. S., & Woodward, A. L. (2007). Infants track action goals within and across agents. _Cognition, 104_ , 287-314. 
Falck-Ytter, T., Gredeback, G., & Hofsten, C. von. (2006). Infants predict other people’s action goals. _Nature Neuroscience, 9_ , 878-879. 
Kochukhova, O., & Gredebäck, G. (2010). Preverbal infants anticipate that food will be brought to the mouth: An eye tracking study of manual feeding and flying spoons. _Child Development_ , 81, 1729-1738.
Gredebäck, G., Stasiewicz, D., Falck-Ytter, T., Rosander, K., & von Hofsten, C. (2009). Action type and goal type modulate goaldirected gaze shifts in 14-month-old infants._Developmental Psychology, 45_ , 1190–1194.
Meltzoff, A. N. (1995). Understanding the intentions of others: Re-enactment of intended acts by 18-month-old children. _Developmental Psychology, 31_ , 838-850. 
Repacholi, B. W. (1998). Infants’ use of attentional cues to identify the referent of another person’s emotional expression. _Developmental Psychology, 34_ , 1017-1025. 
Sakkalou, E. and Gattis, M. L. (2012). Infants infer intentions from prosody. _Cognitive Development_ , 27, 1-16. 
Woodward, A. L. (1998). Infants selectively encode the goal object of an actor’s reach. _Cognition, 69_ , 1-34. 
Woodward, A. L. (1999). Infants’ ability to distinguish between purposeful and non-purposeful behaviors. _Infant Behavior and Development, 22_ , 145-160. 
Woodward, A. L., & Guajardo, J. J. (2002). Infants’ understanding of the point gesture as an object-directed action. _Cognitive Development, 17_ , 1061-1084. 
Woodward, A. L., & Sommerville, J. (2000). Twelve-month-old infants interpret action in context. _Psychological Science, 11_ , 73-77. 
Biro, S., Csibra, G., & Gergely, G. (2007). The role of behavioral cues in understanding goal-directed action in infancy. In C. von. Hofsten & K. Rosander (Eds.), _Progress in Brain Research, Vol.164_ (pp. 303-322). Elsevier. 
Biro, A., & Leslie, A. (2007). Infants’ perception of goal-directed actions: Development through cue-based bootstrapping. _Developmental Science, 10_ , 379-398. 
Csibra, G. (2008). Goal attribution to inanimate agents by 6.5-month-old infants. _Cognition, 107_ , 705-717. 
Hofer, T., Hauf, P., & Aschersleben, G. (2005). Infants’ perception of goal-directed actions performed by a mechanical device. _Infant Behavior and Development, 28_ , 466-480. 
Gergely, G., Csibra, G., Nadasdy, Z., & Biro, S. (1995). Taking the intentional stance at 12 months of age. _Cognition, 56_ , 165-193. 
Kiraly, I., Jovanovic, B., Prinz, W., Aschersleben, G., & Gergely, G. (2003). The early origins of goal attribution in infancy. _Consciousness and Cognition, 12_ , 752-769. 
Kuhlmeier, V., Wynn, K., & Bloom, P. (2003). Attribution of dispositional states by 12-month-olds. _Psychological Science, 14_ , 402-408.
_Perception-action relationships in development_
Kanakogi, Y., & Itakura, S. (2010). The link between perception and action in early infancy: From the viewpoint of the direct matching hypothesis. _Japanese Psychological Research_ , 52, 121–131.
Daum, M. M., Prinz, W., & Aschersleben, G. (2011). Perception and production of object-related grasping in 6-month-old infants. _Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 108_ , 810–818.
Gerson, S., & Woodward, A. (2012). A claw is like my hand: Comparison supports goal analysis in infants. _Cognition, 122_ , 181-192. 
Gerson, S., & Woodward, A. (2014). Learning from their own actions: The unique effect of producing actions on infants’ action understanding. _Child Development, 85_ , 264-277. 
Sommverville, J. A., Woodward, A. L., & Needham, A. (2005). Action experience alters 3-month-old infants’ perception of others’ actions. _Cognition, 96_ , B1-B11. 
Sommerville, J. A., Hildebrand, E. A., & Crane, C. C. (2008). Experience matters: The impact of doing versus watching on infants’ subsequent perception of tool use events. _Developmental Psychology,_ 44, 1249–1256.
Woodward, A.L., & Gerson, S.A. (2014). Mirroring and the development of action understanding. _Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B, 369_ , 20130181. 
Krogh-Jespersen, S. & Woodward, A. L. (2018). Reaching the goal: Active experience facilitates 8-month-old infants’ prospective analysis of goal-based actions.  _Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 171_ , 31-45.
Paulus, M., Hunnius, S., van Wijngaarden, C., Vrins, S., van Rooij, I., & Bekkering, H. (2011). The role of frequency information and teleological reasoning in infants' and adults' action prediction. _Developmental psychology, 47(4)_ , 976-983. 
Green, D., Li, Q., Lockman, J. J., & Gredebäck, G. (2016). Culture influences action understanding in infancy: A comparative study of action prediction in Chinese and Swedish infants. _Child Development, 87_ , 736–746.
Bushnell, E. W., & Boudreau, J. P. (1998). Exploring and exploiting objects with the hands during infancy. In K. J. Connolly (Ed.), _The Psychology of the Hand_(pp.144-161). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
_Social learning in contexts_
Carpenter, M., Call, J., & Tomasello, M. (2002). Understanding “prior intentions” enables 2-year- olds to imitatively learn a complex task. _Child Development, 73_ , 1431-1441. 
Chen, M. L., & Waxman, S. R. (2013). “Shall we blick?”: Novel words highlight actors’ underlying intentions for 14-month-old infants. _Developmental Psychology, 49_ , 426-431. 
Flynn, E., & Whiten, A. (2008). Imitation of hierarchical structure versus component details of complex actions by 3- and 5-year-olds. _Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 101_ , 228-240. 
Flynn, E. G. & Whiten, A. (2013). Dissecting children's observational learning of complex actions through selective video displays. _Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 116_ , 247-263. 
Hamlin, J. K., Hallinan, E. V., & Woodward, A. L. (2008). Do as I do: 7-month-old infants selectively reproduce others’ goals. _Developmental Science, 11_ , 487-494. 
Horner, V., & Whiten, A. (2005). Causal knowledge and imitation/emulation switching in chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and children (Homo sapiens). _Animal Cognition, 8_ , 164-181.
Hopper, L. M., Lambeth, S. P., Schapiro, S. J. & Whiten, A. (2015). The importance of witnessed agency in chimpanzee social learning of tool use. _Behavioural Processes, 112_ , 120-129. 
Huang, C. (2013). Contexts of a person’s prior intention facilitate observational learning in 2.5-year-old children. _Cognitive Development, 28_ , 374-385. 
Király, I., Csibra, G., & Gergely, G. (2013). Beyond rational imitation: Learning arbitrary means actions from communicative demonstrations. _Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 116_ , 471-486. 
Nielsen, M. (2006). Copying actions and copying outcomes: Social learning through the second year. _Developmental Psychology, 42_ , 555-565.
Nielsen, M., Simcock, G., & Jenkins, L. (2008). The effect of social engagement on 24-months-olds’ imitation from live and televised models. _Developmental Science, 11_ , 722-731. 
Nielsen, M., & Blank, C. (2011). Imitation in young children: when who gets copied is more important than what gets copied. _Developmental Pschology, 47,_ 1050–1053.
Paulus, M., Hunnius, S., Vissers, M., & Bekkering, H. (2011). Imitation in infancy: Rational or motor resonance? _Child Development, 82_ , 1047–1057. 
Schwier, C., van Maanen, C., Carpenter, M., & Tomasello, M. (2006). Rational imitation in 12-month-old infants. _Infancy_ , 10, 303-311. 
Williamson, R. A., & Markman, E. M. (2006). Precision of imitation as a function of preschoolers’ understanding of the goal of the demonstration. _Developmental Psychology, 42_ , 723–731.
Clegg, J. M., & Legare, C. H. (2016). Instrumental and conventional interpretations of behavior are associated with distinct behavioral outcomes in early childhood. _Child Development, 87_ , 527-542.
Legare, C.H., Wen, N.J., Herrmann, P.A., & Whitehouse, H. (2015). Imitative flexibility and the development of cultural learning. _Cognition, 142_ , 351-361.
Thompson, D., & Russell, J. (2004). The Ghost condition: Imitation versus emulation in young children’s observational learning. _Developmental Psychology, 40_ , 882-889.  
_Theory of mind_
Apperly, I.A. (2012). What is “theory of mind”? Concepts, cognitive processes and individual differences. _Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 65_ , 825-839. 
Apperly, I.A. (2013). Can theory of mind grow up? Mindreading in adults, and its implications for the neuroscience and development of mindreading. In S. Baron-Cohen, H. Tager-Flusberg, & M. Lombardo (Eds.), _Understanding Other Minds_(3rd ed.) 
Astington, J. W., & Jenkins, J. M. (1999). A longitudinal study of the relation between language and theory-of-mind development. _Developmental Psychology, 35_ , 1311-1320.
Bianco, F., Lecce, S., & Banerjee, R. (2016). Conversations about mental states and theory of mind development during middle childhood: A training study. _Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 149_ , 41-61.
Devine, R. T., & Hughes, C. (2016). Measuring theory of mind across middle childhood: Reliability and validity of the Silent Films and Strange Stories tasks. _Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 149_ , 23-40.
Hale, C. M., & Tager-Flusberg, H. (2003). The influence of language on theory of mind: a training study. _Developmental Science, 6_ , 346-359.
Kiraly, I., Olah, K., Csibra, G., & Kovacs, A. M. (2018). Retrospective attribution of false beliefs in 3-year-old children. _PNAS, 115_ , 11477-11482.
Kovács, Á.M., Téglás, E. & Endress, A.D. (2010). The social sense: susceptibility to others' beliefs in human infants and adults. _Science, 330(6012)_ , 1830-1834.
Lu, H., Su, Y., & Wang, Q. (2008). Talking about others facilitates theory of mind in Chinese preschoolers. _Developmental Psychology, 44_ , 1726-1736.
Meristo, M., Falkman, K. W., & Tedoldi, M. (2007). Language access and theory of mind reasoning: Evidence from deaf children in bilingual and oralist environments. _Developmental Psychology, 43_ , 1156-1169.
Onishi, K. H., & Baillargeon, R. (2005). Do 15-month-old infants understand false beliefs? _Science, 308_ , 255-258. 
Rizzo, M. T., & Killen, M. (2018). How social status influences our understanding of others' mental states. _Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 169_ , 30-41.
Rizzo, M. T., & Killen, M. (2018). Theory of mind is related to children’s resource allocations in gender stereotypic contexts. _Developmental Psychology, 54_ , 510-520.
Southgate, V., Senju, A., & Csibra, G. (2007). Action anticipation through attribution of false belief by 2-year-olds. _Psychological Science, 18_ , 587-592.
Song, H.-J., Baillargeon, R., & Fisher, C. (2005). Can infants attribute to an agent a disposition to perform a particular action? _Cognition, 98_ , B45-B55. 
_Executive function_
Carlson, S. M., & Meltzoff, A. N. (2008). Bilingual experience and executive functioning in young children. _Developmental Science, 11_ , 282-298. 
Cepeda, N. J., Blackwell, K. A., & Munakata, Y. (2013). Speed isn’t everything: Complex processing speed measures mask individual differences and developmental changes in executive control. _Developmental Science, 16_ , 269-286. 
Diamond, A., Barnett, W. S., Thomas, J., & Munro, S. (2007). Preschool program improves cognitive control. _Science, 318_ , 1387-1388. 
Noble, K. G., Norman, M. F., & Farah, M. J. (2005). Neurocognitive correlates of socioeconomic status in kindergarten children. _Developmental Science, 8_ , 74-87.
Evans, G. W., & Schamberg, M. A. (2009). Childhood poverty, chronic stress, and adult working memory. _Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 106 (16)_ , 6545-6549. 
Garon, N., Bryson, S, E., & Smith, I. M. (2008). Executive function in preschoolers: a review using an integrative framework. _Psychological Bulletin, 134_ , 31-60. 
Hongwanishkul, D., Happaney, K. R., Lee, W. S. C., & Zelazo, P. D. (2005). Assessment of hot and cool executive function in young children: Age-related changes and individual differences. _Developmental Neuropsychology, 28_ , 617-644. 
Hughes, C., & Ensor, R. (2008). Does executive function matter for preschoolers’ problem behaviors? _Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 36_ , 1-14. 
Zelazo, P. D. (2006). The dimensional change card sort (DCCS): A method of assessing executive function in children. _Nature Protocols, 1_ , 297-301.
Jacques, S., Zelazo, P. D., Kirkham, N. Z., & Semcesen, T. K. (1999). Rule selection versus rule execution in preschoolers: An error-detection approach. _Developmental Psychology, 35_ , 770-780.
Honomichl, R. D., & Chen, Z. (2011). Relations as rules: The role of attention in the dimensional change card sort task. _Developmental Psychology, 47_ , 50-60.
Kirkham, N., Cruess, L., & Diamnond, A. (2003). Helping children apply their knowledge to their behavior on a dimension-switching task. _Developmental Science, 6_ , 449-476. 
Yerys, B. E., & Munakata, Y. (2006). When labels hurt but novelty helps: Children’s perseveration and ﬂexibility in a card-sorting task. _Child Development, 77_ , 15891607.
Muller, U., Dick, A., Gela, K., Overton, W., & Zelzao, P. (2006). The role of negative priming in preschoolers’ flexible rule use on the dimensional change card sort task. _Child Development, 77_ , 395-412.
White, R. E., & Carlson, S. M. (2016). What would Batman do? Self‐distancing improves executive function in young children. _Developmental Science_ _, 19(3)_ , 419–426.
White, R. E., Prager, E. O., Schaefer, C., Kross, E., Duckworth, A. L., & Carlson, S. M. (2017). The “Batman Effect”: Improving perseverance in young children. _Child Development_ , _88_(5), 1563–1571.
Gaither, S. E., Fan, S. P., & Kinzler, K. D. (in press). Thinking about multiple identities boosts children’s flexible thinking. _Developmental Science_.
Snyder, H. R., & Munakata, Y. (2013). So many options, so little control: Abstract representations can reduce selection demands to increase children's self-directed flexibility. _Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 116_ , 659-673. 
_Theory of mind and executive function_
Carlson, S. M., Mandell, D. J., & Williams, L. (2004). Executive function and theory of mind: Stability and prediction from ages 2 to 3. _Developmental Psychology, 40_ , 1105-1122.
Hughes, C., & Ensor, R. (2007). Executive function and theory of mind: Predictive relations from ages 2 to 4. _Developmental Psychology, 43_ , 1447-1459. 
Sabbagh, M. A., Xu, F., Carlson, S. M., Moses, L. J., & Lee, K. (2006). The development of executive functioning and theory of mind: A comparison of Chinese and U. S. Preschoolers. _Psychological Science, 17_ , 74-81. 
Wang, Z., Devine, R. T., Wong, K. K., & Hughes, C. (2016). Theory of mind and executive function during middle childhood across cultures, _Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 149_ , 6-22.
Devine, R. T., White, N., Ensor, R., & Hughes, C. (2016). Theory of mind in middle childhood: Longitudinal associations with executive function and social competence. _Developmental Psychology, 52_ , 758-771
Kloo, D., & Perner, J. (2003). Training transfer between card sorting and false belief understanding: Helping children apply conflicting descriptions. _Child Development, 74_ , 1823-1839.
Perner, J., Lang, B., & Kloo, D. (2002). Theory of mind and self-control: More than a common problem of inhibition. _Child Development, 73_ , 752-767. 
Munakata, Y., Snyder, H. R., & Chatham, C.H. (2012). Developing cognitive control: Three key transitions. _Current Directions in Psychological Science, 21_ , 71-77. 
Bradford, E. E. F., Jentzsch, I., & Gomez, J.-C. (2015). From self to social cognition: Theory of Mind mechanisms and their relation to Executive Functioning. _Cognition, 138_ , 21-34.
_Neurodevelopmental disorders_
Dawson, G., Carver, L., Meltzoff, A.N., Panagiotides, H., & McPartland, J. (2002). Neural correlates of face recognition in young children with autism spectrum disorder, developmental delay, and typical development._Child Development, 73_ , 700-717. 
Dawson, G., Munson, J., Estes, A., Osterling, J., McPartland, J., Toth, K., Carver, L., Abbot, R. (2002). Neurocognitive function and joint attention ability in young children with autism spectrum disorder. _Child Development, 73_ , 345-358. 
Dawson, G., Toth, K., Abbot, R., Osterling, J., Munson, J., Estes, A., & Liaw, J. (2004). Early social attention impairments in autism: Social orienting, joint attention, and attention to distress. _Developmental Psychology, 40_ , 271-283. 
Hamilton, A., Brindley, R., & Frith, U. (2007). Imitation and action understanding in autistic spectrum disorders: How valid is the hypothesis of a deficit in the mirror neuron system? _Neuropsychologia, 45_ , 1859-1868. 
Hamilton, A. F. (2009). Research review: Goals, intentions and mental states: challenges for theories of autism. _Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry, 50(8)_ , 881–892. 
Hamilton, A. F. (2013). Reflecting on the mirror neuron system in autism: a systematic review of current theories. _Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience, 3_ , 91–105. 
Hill, E. (2004). Executive dysfunction in autism. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 8, 26-32.  
Jarrold, C., Butler, D. W., Cottington, E. M., & Jimenez, F. (2000). Linking theory of mind and central coherence bias in autism and in the general population. _Developmental Psychology, 36_ , 126-138. 
Joseph, R., Steele, S., Meyer, E., & Tager-Flusberg, H. (2005). Self-ordered pointing in children with autism: Failure to use verbal mediation in the service of working memory? _Neuropsychologia, 43_ , 1400-1411. 
Marton, K. (2009). Imitation of body postures and hand movements in children with specific language impairment._Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 102_ , 1-13. 
Pellicano, E. (2007). Links between theory of mind and executive function in young children with autism: Clues to developmental primacy. _Developmental Psychology, 43_ , 974-990.
Rutherford, M. D., Pennington, B. F., & Rogers, S. J. (2006). The perception of animacy in young children with autism. _Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders, 36_ , 983-992. 
Tager-Flusberg, H., & Joseph, R. M. (2005). How language facilitates the acquisition of false-belief understanding in children with autism. In J. W. Astington & J. A. Baird (Eds.), _Why language matters for theory of mind_. Oxford University Press. 
Williams, J. H. G., Waiter, G. D., Gilchrist, A., Perrett, D. I., Murray, A. D., & Whiten, A. (2006). Neural mechanisms of imitation and “mirror neuron” functioning in autistic spectrum disorder. _Neuropsychologia, 44_ , 610-621. 
Williams, J. H. (2008). Self-other relations in social development and autism: Multiple roles for mirror neurons and other brain bases._Autism Research, 1(2)_ , 73–90. 
Zelazo, P. D., Jacques, S., Burack, J. A., & Frye, D. (2002). The relation between theory of mind and rule use: Evidence from persons with autism-spectrum disorders. _Infant and Child Development, 11_ , 171-195.
_Children’s understanding of humanoid robots_
Itakura, S., Ishida, H., Kanda, T., Shimada, Y., Ishiguro, H., & Lee, K. (2008). How to build an intentional android: infants' imitation of a robot's goal-directed actions. _Infancy, 13_ , 519-532.
Jamet, F., Masson, O., Jacquet, B., Stilgenbauer, J.-L., & Baratgin, J. (2018). Learning by teaching with humanoid robot: A new powerful experimental tool to improve children’s learning ability.  _Journal of Robotics_ , Article ID 4578762.
Kamewari, K., Kato, M., Kanda, T., Ishiguro, H., & Hiraki, K. (2005). Six-and-a-half-month-old children positively attribute goals to human action and to humanoid-robot motion. _Cognitive Development, 20_ , 303-320.
Marchetti, A., Manzi, F., Itakura, S., & Massaro, D. (2018). Theory of mind and humanoid robots from a lifespan perspective. _Zeitschrift für Psychologie, 226_ , 98–109.
Meltzoff, M., Brooks, R., Shon, A., & Rao, R. (2010). “Social” robots are psychological agents for infants: A test of gaze following. _Neural Networks, 23_ , 966-972. 
Shimizu, Y. A., & Johnson, S. C. (2004). Infants’ attribution of a goal to a morphologically unfamiliar agent. _Developmental Science, 7_ , 425-30.
_Learning from 3C devices_
Zimmerman, L., Moser, A., Lee, H., Gerhardstein, P., & Barr, R. (2016). The ghost in the touchscreen: Social scaffolds promote learning by toddlers.  _Child Development, 88_ , 2013–2025.
Lauricella, A. R., Barr, R. F., & Calvert, S. L. (2014). Parent-child interactions during traditional and computer storybook reading for children’s comprehension: Implications for electronic storybook design.  _International Journal of Child-Computer Interaction, 2_ , 17–25.
Huber, B., Yeates, M., Meyer, D., Fleckhammer, L., & Kaufman, J. (2018). The effects of screen media content on young children’s executive functioning. _Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, 170_ , 72-85.
Kirkorian, H.L., Choi, K., & Pempek, T.A. (2016). Toddlers’ word learning from contingent and noncontingent video on touch screens. _Child Development, 87_ , 405–413.
Strouse, G. A., Troseth, G. L., O’Doherty, K., & Saylor, M. M. (2018). Co-viewing supports toddlers’ word learning from contingent and non-contingent video.  _Journal of Experimental Child Psychology,_  _166_ , 310–326.
Troseth, G.L., Saylor, M.M., & Archer, A.H. (2006). Young children’s use of video as a source of socially relevant information. _Child Development,77_ , 786–799.
Troseth, G. L., Russo, C. E., & Strouse, G. A. (2016). What's next for research on young children and interactive media?  _Journal of Children and Media,__10_ , 54– 62.
Myers, L. J., LeWitt, R. B., Gallo, R. E., & Maselli, N. M. (2017). Baby FaceTime: Can toddlers learn from online video chat?  _Developmental Science, 20_ , e12430.
McClure, E. R., Chentsova‐Dutton, Y. E., Holochwost, S. J., Parrott, W. G. and Barr, R. (2018), Look At That! Video Chat and Joint Visual Attention Development Among Babies and Toddlers. _Child Development, 89_ , 27-36.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:本課程有條件開放學生在指定作業與學習活動中使用生成式AI工具。學生可運用AI協助構思、初步撰寫或反覆修訂作業內容。然而，學生仍需對最終提交的作品負全責，確保其內容正確、具原創性。不當依賴AI生成內容，提交AI全自動生成且未經編修的作業，將構成學術不誠實。學生應正確、負責地使用生成式AI工具，以培養批判思考與創作能力為學習目標。 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
星期二16:00-18:00果夫樓黃啟泰老師(建議事先預約)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
待聘
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
