國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：社群網路
#####  Course Name: Introduction to Social Networks
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：761014001 Course No.761014001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：群智博一、群智博二 Course Department:Social Networks and Human-Centered Computing (SNHCC)/D/1&2 
  * 授課老師：郭桐惟 Instructor: KUO TUNG-WEI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
In this course, the following topics will be presented and discussed: social media analysis, blogs and friendship network analysis, email and messaging analytics, influence spreading and viral marketing, social reputation and trust, user profiling and recommendation systems, social media searches, expertise and authority discovery, community identification, link prediction, collaborative data analysis, and data mining with social factors.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Some websites own considerable amount of data, e.g., the user topology of Facebook contains billions of nodes. For a large variety of social networking applications, community detection is the one of the most basic issues for mining their data. Moreover, new topics emerge for modeling the user behaviors with the abundant social information, e.g., credibility mining, user interest modeling, user demographics and social strategy inference, advertisement targeting, fraud/anomaly detection, influence probability learning. On the other hand, analyzing social links provides fundamental knowledge for different applications, e.g., link prediction for friend/item recommendation, social influence for viral marketing, and anchor link inference for identity authentication. Also, graph pattern mining is one of the most important topics for graph data mining as well as the pairwise shortest path query and triangle counting. Furthermore, to avoid malice adversary obtaining users’ real identities of each corresponding node, privacy-preserving graph mining plays a very important role when social network data is used in practical commercial sales. The clustering and classification of documents in social media are also important for social networks.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
1. Data Mining in Social Network
2. Frequent Pattern Mining  
3. Clustering  
4. Classification
5. Classification  
6. Statistics Property of Social Network
7. Community Discovery  
8. Midterm  
9. Node Classification  
10. Link prediction  
11. Privacy in Social Network Text Mining
12. Text Mining in Social Network
13.Project Proposal  
14. Social Influence  
15. Social Tagging  
16. Project Presentation
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.