國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：種族、宗教、民族主義：全球的暴力與歸屬政治
#####  Course Name: Ethnicity, Religion, Nationalism:Violence and the Politics of Belonging in the Global World
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：862893001 Course No.862893001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國研碩一、國研碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in International Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：DeasyRumondang Prisc Instructor: Deasy Rumondang Priscilla 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五D56 Session: fri13-16 
##  課程簡介Course Description
Notes:
  * Essays : Students write 1 essay (1000 words), due at the mid-term. This essay is written in a style of policy commentary. For this essay, students choose for themselves at least 2 theories from the 16-week course, and a case study.
  * Final paper : Students write 1 individual final paper of 4,000-5,000 words due at the end of the course. Students choose the topic of these final papers themselves.
  * Presentations : Students present twice: 1 on the weekly topic of their choice, 1 on the framework of their final papers.
  * The course includes stimulating activities such as debates, games, simulations, watch a film. Film Title: Argo (2012), a three-Oscars-winning film about the rescue of US embassy employees from the siege of the American embassy in Tehran, Iran. Director: Ben Affleck.
  * The course is also planned to introduce an innovative learning method which includes visits to religious civil society organizations to discuss with religious leaders/activists on the interplay between “religion” and “nationalism”, the organizations are The Presbyterian Church in Taiwan (PCT), The Taipei Grand Mosque in Da’an, and Tzu-Chi Foundation.  
In light of the prolonged Israeli-Hamas war, the current war between Israel and Iran, and the involvement of the US, observers have warned of the possibility of a serious global conflict in the near future. The course “Ethnicity, Religion, Nationalism: Violence and the Politics of Belonging in the Global World” is a relevant course where students will have the chance to academically discuss and analyze a global phenomenon where ethnicity and religion have informed nationalism and induced violence, both in the Middle East and elsewhere in the world.  
The course explores the interaction between religion and ethnic identities in Asia (East Asia, South Asia and Southeast Asia), including the Middle East, and the US, and their impact on nationalism. It embraces critical questions of identity and citizenship, inclusion and exclusion, emotive attachments, local/global linkages, conflicts and violence. How do ethnicity and religion influence political interaction? How do ethnic and religious identities aggravate conflict and/or strengthen cooperation? The course examines case studies illustrating the junctures of ethnic, religion and national identities through the exploration of the politics of belonging and citizenship. It also investigates how relevant dimensions such as sacralization and symbolic legitimation may lead to violence. 
The course is divided into two parts. The first part examines key concepts of ethnicity, religion, identity, nation, nationalism, as well as exploring the explanations of the emergence of nationalism. The second part delves into the impact of nationalism on the sense of belonging and political identities, religious nationalism, fundamentalism, by examining case studies from countries such as China, Myanmar, Thailand, Indonesia, India, Turkey, Israel and the US. 
On Week 11 we will watch the film “Argo” (2012, Director: Ben Affleck) , which was one of the most high-profile films in 2012, about the 1979 rescue of six U.S. State Department employees from the siege at the American embassy in Tehran, Iran. On Week 14, we will have ourInnovative Learning Method Week: Study Visits to Religious Organizations. We plan to visit the Presbyterian Church in Taiwan (PCT), the Taipei Grand Mosque at Da’an, and Tzu-Chi Foundation. Students will meet with religious leaders/activists to discuss the interplay between “religion” and “nationalism”, and conflict.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 掌握國際安全或國際合作發展實務與理論
  * B. 統整與分析國際資訊
  * C. 培養國際移動能力與國際公民價值
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
After completing the course, students will:
  1. Understand the meaning of key concepts, such as ethnicity, religion, identity, nation, nationalism, religious nationalism and fundamentalism.
  2. Understand the interaction and complex relations between these key concepts and its role in the politics of belonging and citizenship in various countries.
  3. Understand the interaction and complex relations between these key concepts and its role in fundamentalism and/or political violence in various countries.
  4. Able to analyze current and/or past conflicts by looking at the role of ethnicity and religion in generating nationalism, which in turn induces violence and conflict in the global world.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Week |  Topic |  Content and Reading Assignment |  Teaching Activities and Homework  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction of concepts: religion, ethnicity, nationalism. 9/5 |  Syllabus Evaluation Criteria Class Regulations Required Readings Anderson, Benedict. 1991. _Imagined Communities: Reflections on the Origin and Spread of Nationalism_. London: Verso, pp. 5-7 Gellner, Ernest. 2006. Nations and Nationalism, pp.1-7. Additional Chandra, Kanchan. 2006. "What is ethnic identity and does it matter?" _Annual Review of Political Science_ 9: 397-424. | 
  * Introduction of syllabus and regulations
  * Lecture: Introduction of concepts
  * Students choose on which week they would like to do their weekly presentations.
  * No Homework
2 |  Deeper into Ethnicity and Nationalism 9/12 |  Required Readings Brubaker, Rogers. 2004. “’Civic’ and ‘ethnic’ nationalism”, in _Ethnicity without Groups._ Harvard: Harvard University Press. Chapter 6, pp. 132-146 Hutchinson, John and Anthony D. Smith (eds.). 1994. _Nationalism_. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press, Introduction, pp. 3-5 Additional Fearon, James, and David D. Laitin, 2000, "Ordinary language and external validity: Specifying concepts in the study of ethnicity." | 
  * Lecture: the congruence of ethnicity and nationalism
  * Presentation of the readings (for one or two students who chose to do the topic)
  * Other activities: games, simulation, debates.
3 |  Primordialism and Constructivism 9/19 |  Required Readings Maxwell, A. (2020) Primordialism for Scholars Who Ought to Know Better: Anthony D. Smith’s Critique of Modernization Theory. _Nationalities Papers,_ 48(5): 826-842. Bayar, Murat. (2009) "Reconsidering primordialism: an alternative approach to the study of ethnicity." _Ethnic and racial studies_ 32.9: 1639-1657. Additional Wang, Chia-Chou (2018) Primordialism, Instrumentalism, Constructivism: Factors Influencing Taiwanese People’s Regime Acceptance of Mainland China’s Government _, Journal of Contemporary China_ , 27:109, 137-150 | 
  * Lecture: ethnicity: is it a primordial or a constructed identity?
  * Presentation of the readings (for one or two students who chose to do the topic)
  * Other activities: games, simulation, debates.
4 |  Ethnic and Communal Violence 9/26 |  Required Readings Brubaker, Rogers and David D. Laitin. 1998. "Ethnic and Nationalist Violence." _Annual Review of Sociology_ 24:423-52 Additional Horowitz, Donald. 1985. Ethnic Groups in Conflict. Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, pp. 21-54 | 
  * Lecture: how ethnicity leads to violence
  * Presentation of the readings (for one or two students who chose to do the topic)
  * Other activities: games, simulation, debates.
5 |  Religious Nationalism 10/3 |  Required Readings Juergensmeyer, Mark. (2010) "The global rise of religious nationalism." _Australian Journal of International Affairs_ 64.3: 262-273. Grzymala-Busse, Anna. (2019). Religious nationalism and religious influence. In _Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Politics_ Additional Brubaker, Rogers. (2012). Religion and nationalism: Four approaches. _Nations and nationalism_ , _18_(1), 2-20. | 
  * Lecture: introduction on how religion can evoke nationalist sentiments
  * Presentation of the readings (for one or two students who chose to do the topic)
  * Other activities: games, simulation, debates.
6 |  Double Ten Hol. NO CLASS 10/10 |  NO CLASS |  Students start writing their essays.  
7 |  Religious Nationalism and Fundamentalism 10/17 |  Required Readings Emerson, Michael O., and David Hartman. (2006) "The rise of religious fundamentalism." _Annual review of Sociology_ (2006): 127-144. Friedland, Roger. "Religious nationalism and the problem of collective representation." _Annual Review of Sociology_ (2001): 125-152. Additional Juergensmeyer, Mark (1993) Why religious nationalists are not fundamentalists, _Religion_ , 23:1, 85-92 | 
  * Lecture: the similarities and differences between religious nationalism and fundamentalism
  * Presentation of the readings (for one or two students who chose to do the topic)
  * Other activities: games, simulation, debates.
8 |  Religion, Nationalism and Ethnicity 10/24 |  Required Readings Mitchell, Claire (2006). The Religious Content of Ethnic Identities. _Sociology_ , _40_(6), 1135–1152 Gorski, Philip S., and Gülay Türkmen-Dervişoğlu. "Religion, nationalism, and violence: An integrated approach." _Annual Review of Sociology_ 39 (2013): 193-210. Additional Brubaker, Rogers. (2015), "Religious dimensions of political conflict and violence." _Sociological Theory_ 33.1: 1-19. | 
  * Lecture: how ethnicity and religion reinforce nationalism.
  * Presentation of the readings (for one or two students who chose to do the topic)
  * Other activities: games, simulation, debates
  * Students submit their Mid-Term Essay (1,000 words)
Essays are based on at least two theories that they have learnt in the class, and a relevant case study. The usage of other additional theories is encouraged.  
9 |  Ethnoreligious conflict and religious nationalism in Indonesia 10/31 |  Required Readings Menchik, J. (2014). Productive intolerance: Godly nationalism in Indonesia. _Comparative Studies in Society and History_ , _56_(3), 591–621 Simandjuntak, Deasy (2021) "Disciplining the Accepted and Amputating the Deviants: Religious Nationalism and Segregated Citizenship in Indonesia." _Asian Journal of Law and Society_ 8.1: 88-107 Additional Aspinall, Edward (2008) Ethnic and religious violence in Indonesia: a review essay, _Australian Journal of International Affairs_ , 62(4): 558-572 | 
  * Lecture: how Islamic nationalism is connected to electoral politics in Indonesia
  * Presentation of the readings (for one or two students who chose to do the topic)
  * Other activities: games, simulation, debates
10 |  Nationalism and Authoritarianism: Comparing Iran and Turkey 11/7 |  Required Readings Marashi, Afshin. "Paradigms of Iranian Nationalism: History, Theory, and Historiography." _Rethinking Iranian nationalism and modernity_. University of Texas Press, 2021. 3-24. Skocpol, Theda. "Rentier state and Shi'a Islam in the Iranian revolution." _Theory and society_ 11.3 (1982): 265-283. Findley, Carter Vaughn. "Turkey, Islam, nationalism, and modernity." _Turkey, Islam, Nationalism, and Modernity_. Yale University Press, 2010. Additional Matin-Asgari, Afshin. "The Berlin circle: Iranian nationalism meets German countermodernity." _Rethinking Iranian nationalism and modernity_. University of Texas Press, 2021. 49-66. | 
  * Lecture: the similarities and differences of modernity and religious nationalism in Iran and Turkey
  * Presentation of the readings (for one or two students who chose to do the topic)
  * Other activities: games, simulation, debates
11 |  FILM WEEK 11/14 |  We are watching Argo (2012) Director: Ben Affleck. One of the most high-profile film in 2012, _Argo_ tells the story of six U.S. State Department employees who managed to escape the 1979 siege at the American embassy in Tehran (which resulted in the 444-day hostage saga), but who were still trapped in Iran. |  Watch Film Discussion  
12 |  Ethnoreligious and religious nationalism in Myanmar and Thailand, with a comparison of how religions are practiced in Chinese societies. 11/21 |  Required Readings Kyaw, Nyi Nyi. "The role of myth in anti-muslim buddhist nationalism in Myanmar." _Buddhist-Muslim Relations in a Theravada World_. Palgrave Macmillan, Singapore, 2020. 197-226. Tonsakulrungruang, Khemthong. "The Revival of Buddhist Nationalism in Thailand and Its Adverse Impact on Religious Freedom." _Asian Journal of Law and Society_ 8.1 (2021): 72-87. Kuo, Cheng-tian. "Religion, state, and religious nationalism in Chinese societies." _Religion and Nationalism in Chinese Societies, edited by Cheng-tian Kuo. Amsterdam: Amsterdam University Press_ (2018). Ch.1 Additional Chowdhury, Arnab Roy (2020) “An ‘un-imagined community’: the entangled genealogy of an exclusivist nationalism in Myanmar and the Rohingya refugee crisis”, _Social Identities_ 26:5, 590-607 | 
  * Lecture: Comparing Buddhist nationalism in Myanmar and Thailand
  * Presentation of the readings (for one or two students who chose to do the topic)
  * Other activities: games, simulation, debates
  * Final Presentation batch 1
13 |  Comparative Religious Nationalism in India and Israel 11/28 |  Required Readings Van der Veer, P. (2021). Minority Rights and Hindu Nationalism in India. _Asian Journal of Law and Society,_ _8_(1), 44-55 Goldstein, W. S. (2025). Israel/Palestine: Towards a one-state solution. _Critical Research on Religion_ , _13_(1), 3-16. Additional Chacko, Priya. (2019). Marketizing Hindutva: The state, society, and markets in Hindu nationalism. _Modern Asian Studies,_ _53_(2), 377-410  Abiri, Gilad. (2021). Intimate Rivals: The Freedom of Religious Nationalism. _Asian Journal of Law and Society,_ _8_(1), 19-43 | 
  * Lecture: comparing religious and nationalism in India and Israel: ethnicity, religion and territoriality
  * Presentation of the readings (for one or two students who chose to do the topic)
  * Other activities: games, simulation, debates
  * Final Presentations batch 2
14 |  Innovative Learning Method Week: Study Visits to Religious Organizations 12/4 |  Visits to: The Presbyterian Church in Taiwan (PCT), The Taipei Grand Mosque, and Tzu-Chi Foundation | 
  * Meet with religious leaders/activists
  * Discuss the interplay between “religion” and “nationalism”, and conflict
15 |  Bonus topic: Christian Nationalism in the US The complex relations between ethnicity, religion and nationalism 12/5 |  Required Smith, Anthony D. "Culture, community and territory: the politics of ethnicity and nationalism." _International Affairs_ 72.3 (1996): 445-458. Juergensmeyer, Mark. "Religious nationalism in a global world." _Religions_ 10.2 (2019): 97.  | 
  * Lecture: concluding the course: is religious nationalism the most lethal kind of nationalism?
  * Discussion: US Christian nationalism
  * Presentation (for one or two students who chose to do the topic)
  * Other activities: games, simulation, debates
  * Final Presentations batch 3
16 |  Final Presentation Week 12/19 |  Student Final Presentations |  Final Presentations batch 4 FINAL PAPER DEADLINE is on 12/22  
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.