國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：拉丁美洲的民主與發展
#####  Course Name: Democracy and Development in Latin America
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：862833001 Course No.862833001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國研碩一、國研碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in International Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：IppolitoGabriela Instructor: Ippolito Gabriela 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三567 Session: wed14-17


##  課程簡介Course Description
**Course description**
Since the 1980s, most countries in Latin America have left behind a long history of harsh authoritarian rule and became electoral democracies. Despite this remarkable achievement, political institutions remain fragile, economic development uncertain, and the reduction of social inequality is still in the making. In short, citizenship remains “low intensity.” This course is an introduction to the politics of democratization and development in the region. The main question to be addressed is: How are different countries facing the challenge of consolidating democracy and achieving development with social justice? The course will survey theories of democracy and development to explain the recent history and current situation of the region.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 掌握國際安全或國際合作發展實務與理論
  * B. 統整與分析國際資訊
  * C. 培養國際移動能力與國際公民價值


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
**Objectives**
The main objective of the course is to provide students a general panorama of the dilemmas countries in Latin America face to establish political democracies that are socially inclusive. To do so the course will provide theoretical and analytical tools as well as empirical background to help students identify, describe, explain and compare these dilemmas. 
A second objective of this course is to challenge participants and turn their minds into “social scientists wavelength” so as to learn how to ask research questions the same way they do. 
A third and final objective of this course is to help students fine-tune their writing and oral presentation skills. At the end of this course, the expectation is that all participants will be able to give a concise, analytical, comparative, and critical presentation of a country-case study.
With this in mind, the course consists of three parts. Part I addresses the main topics of this course theoretically. We will discuss definitions of democracy and development. Part II deals with the successes and failures of democracy and development in Latin America during most of the XX Century. Part III will focus on the most pressing issues Latin American countries are facing since the1980s to consolidate democracy with social justice. In Part III we will address issues of institutional weakness, poverty and inequality, (un)rule of law, and the dangers of authoritarian regressions. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**__Week 1 Getting engaged with Latin America__**
_Introduction to the course_. 
_First assignment_ : watch the movies THE MISSION (1986) & THE MOTORCYCLE DIARIES (2004)
Both movies portray different moments in the history of Latin America.
Be prepared to discuss the central aspects of the two movies on the first assignment.
**_Week 2 _Latin America. From Conquest to Modern Times__**
Skidmore, Thomas E. and Peter H. Smith 1984. _Modern Latin America._ Oxford: Oxford University Press, chapter 1 (pp. 15-45).
Vanden, Harry and Gary Prevost 2009. _Politics of Latin America. The Power Game._ Oxford: Oxford University Press, chapter 2 (pp. 19-40).
**__Week 3 Definitions and Conceptual issues I. What is Democracy?__**
  1. _The Birth of Democracy._


Video:_The Greeks. The Crucible of Civilization._ PBS documentary via Hesburgh Library http://whiv.alexanderstreet.com/View/915899
Hornblower, Simon 1992. “The Creation and Development of Democratic Institutions in Ancient Greece,” chapter 1 (pp. 1-16), in John Dunn 1992 _Democracy the Unfinished Journey 508 BC to AD 1993._ Oxford: Oxford University Press. 
  1. __Contemporary Democracy__


Dahl, Robert 1998. _On Democracy_ New Haven: Yale University Press _,_ chapters 4, 5 & 8 (pp. 35-61 & 83-99).
O’Donnell, Guillermo 2010. _Democracy, Agency and the State. Theory with Comparative Intent._ Oxford: Oxford University Press, chapter 1 (pp. 13-29). 
Recommended:
Collier, David and Steven Levitsky 1996 “Democracy ‘with Adjectives’: Conceptual Innovation in Comparative Research,” Kellogg Institute Working Paper #230 – August. http://kellogg.nd.edu/publications/workingpapers/WPS/230.pdf
**__Week 4 Definitions and Conceptual issues II. What is Development?__**
  1. _What is Development?_


Soubbotina, Tatyana 2000. _Beyond Economic Growth. Meeting the Challenges of Global Development._ Washington DC: World Bank. Chapters 1 & 2 (pp. 7-15).
http://www.worldbank.org/depweb/beyond/beyondco/beg_all.pdf
Hirschman, Albert O. 1981. _Essays in Tresspassing. Economics to Politics and Beyond_. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, chapter 1 (pp. 1-33) (“The Rise and Decline of Development Economics”)
Recommended: 
Evans, Peter 1992. “The State as a Problem and as a Solution: Predation, Embedded Autonomy, and Structural Change,” in Haggard, Stephen and Robert R. Kauffman eds. _The Politics of Economic Adjustment,_ Princeton: Princeton University Press, chapter 3 (pp. 139-181). 
Gerschenkron, Alexander 1962. _Economic Backwardness in Historical Perspective. A Book of Essays._ Cambridge: Harvard University Press, chapter 2 (pp. 31-51), (“Reflections on the Concept of ‘Prerequisites’ of Modern Industrialization.”)
  1. __New Perspectives on Development__


Videos: 
_Amartya Sen_ interview (5:5).
http://link.brightcove.com/services/player/bcpid43942729001?bctid=658140244001
_People First: The Human Development Reports_ (9:39)
http://hdr.undp.org/en/mediacentre/videos/humandev/
Sen, Amartya 1999. _Development as Freedom._ New York: Knopf. Introduction (pp. 3-11).
The UN Intellectual History Project 2009. _The UN and Human Development._ Briefing # 9 (pp. 1-6).
http://hdr.undp.org/en/media/Jolly%20HDR%20note%20%20UN%20Intellectual%20History%20Project%208HumDev.pdf
Cohen, Jessica and William Easterly eds. 2009. _What Works in Development? Thinking Big and Thinking Small._ Washington DC: Brookings Institution Press. Chapters 1 (pp.1-23) & 2 (by Dani Rodrik, pp. 24-54) .
Recommended: 
Sen, Amartya 1999. _Development as Freedom._ New York: Knopf, chapters 1, 2, 3 & 4. 
**__Week 5 Democracy and Development in Latin America. General Overview__.**
  1. __In Search of a Development Project I__


Lehmann, David 1990. _Democracy and Development in Latin America. Economics, Politics and Religion in the Post-War Period._ Philadelphia: Temple University Press. Chapters 1 & 2 (pp. 1-87). 
Skidmore, Thomas E. and Peter H. Smith (1984) _Modern Latin America._ Oxford: Oxford University Press, chapter 2 (pp. 46-69).
  1. _In Search of a Development Project II._


Movie: EVITA (1996, on Argentina and Populism)
**__Week 6 Modernization and Authoritarianism__**
  1. __What went wrong with democracy and development in Latin America?__


O’Donnell, Guillermo 1973 _Modernization and Bureaucratic-Authoritarianism. Studies in South American Politics_. Berkeley: University of California Press. Chapter 2 (pp. 51-114).
  1. _The emergence of Bureaucratic Authoritarianism_.


Collier, David ed. 1979 _The New Authoritarianism in Latin America._ Princeton: Princeton University Press, Introduction & chapter 1 (pp. 3-32 “Overview of the Bureaucratic-Authoritarian Model”).
O’D 1999, chapter 2 (pp. 35-47 “Tensions in the Bureaucratic-Authoritarian State and the Question of Democracy”).
**__Week 7 Breakdown of Democratic Regimes__**
  1. _Conceptual issues (lecture)._


Movies: MISSING (1982, on Chile)
MACHUCA (2004, on Chile) 
LA NOCHE DE LOS LAPICES (1986, “Night of the Pencils,” on Argentina)
O’Donnell 1999, chapter 3 (pp.51-62 “Democracy in Argentina. Macro and Micro”).
Recommended:
Linz, Juan J. and Alfred Stepan eds. 1978 _. The Breakdown of Democratic Regimes._ Baltimore and London: John Hopkins University Press. Part I: “Crisis, Breakdown, and Reequilibration,”(pp. 3- 124)
  1. __A paradigmatic case of democratic breakdown: Chile__


Valenzuela, Arturo 1978 “CHILE” in Juan J. Linz and Alfred Stepan eds. 1978 _. The Breakdown of Democratic Regimes._ Baltimore and London: John Hopkins University Press. Part IV (pp. i- 137).
**__Week 8 Wrap-up__**
_Questions and answers_
**__Week 9: Mid-term__**
**__Week 10 Transitions from Authoritarian Rule__**
  1. __Conceptual issues (lecture)__


Movie: THE OFFICIAL STORY (1985, on Argentina)
O’D 1999, chapter 6 (pp. 109-129 “Notes for the Study of Processes of Democratization in the Wake of the Bureaucratic-Authoritarian State”)
Recommended:
O’Donnell, Guillermo and Philippe C. Schmitter 1986. _Transitions from Authoritarian Rule. Tentative Conclusions about Uncertain Democracies._ Baltimore: John Hopkins University Press, (pp. i-96).
  1. __Comparative Perspective and Outliers: Argentina, Brazil and Mexico.__


Mainwaring, Scott and Eduardo Viola 1984 “Transitions to Democracy: Argentina and Brazil in the 1980s,” Kellogg Institute, University of Notre Dame. Working paper #21. http://kellogg.nd.edu/publications/workingpapers/WPS/021.pdf
Magaloni, Beatriz 2005. “The Demise of Mexico’s One-Party Dominant Regime” in Hagopian, Frances and Scott Mainwaring eds. _The Third Wave of Democratization in Latin America: Advances and Setbacks._ New York: Cambridge University Press, chapter 4 (pp. 121- 146).
**__Week 11 Issues in Democratization I__**
  1. _The Quality of New Democracies_.


O’Donnell 1999, chapter 8 (pp. 159-173“Delegative Democracy”), chapter 9 (pp. 175-194“Illusions about Consolidation”), and chapter 7 (pp. 133-157 “On the State, Democratization and Some Conceptual Problems. A Latin American View with Glances at Some Postcommunist Countries”).
  1. _Civil Society and the (un)Rule of Law_


Peruzzotti, Enrique and Catalina Smulovitz 2006. “Social Accountability: An Introduction,” in Peruzzotti, Enrique and Catalina Smulovitz eds. _Enforcing the Rule of Law. Social Accountability in the New Latin American Democracies._ Pittsburgh: Pittsburgh University Press, chapter 1 (pp. 3-33).
## Gonzalez Ocantos, Ezequiel (2014). “Persuade Them or Oust Them: Crafting Judicial Change and Transitional Justice in Argentina,” _Comparative Politics,_ Volume 46, Number 4, July 2014, pp. 479-498(20)
**__Week 12 Issues in Democratization II__**
_a) Democracy in the Andes_
Mainwaring, Scott 2006. “The Crisis of Representation in the Andes,” in _Journal of Democracy._ July Vol. 17 # 3, pp. 13-27. Baltimore: John Hopkins University Press. 
http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/journal_of_democracy/v017/17.3mainwaring.html
Van Cott, Donna Lee 2007. “Latin America’s Indigenous Peoples,” in _Journal of Democracy._ October Vol. 18 # 4, pp. 127-142. Baltimore: John Hopkins University Press. http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/journal_of_democracy/v018/18.4van-cott.html
_b)After Neoliberalism:_ _New Left Governments and Populism_
Cleary, Matthew R. 2006. “Explaining the Left’s Resurgence,” in _Journal of Democracy._ October Vol. 17 # 4, pp. 35-49. Baltimore: John Hopkins University Press. http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/journal_of_democracy/v017/17.4cleary.html
Schamis, Hector E. 2006. “Populism, Socialism, and Democratic Institutions,” in _Journal of Democracy._ October Vol. 17 # 4, pp. 20-34. Baltimore: John Hopkins University Press. http://journalofdemocracy.org/articles/gratis/Schamis-17-4.pdf
Coppedge, Michael 2005. “Explaining Democratic Deterioration in Venezuela Through Nested Inference,” in Hagopian, Frances and Scott Mainwaring eds. _The Third Wave of Democratization in Latin America: Advances and Setbacks._ New York: Cambridge University Press, chapter 10 (pp. 289-316).
Recommended:
Walker, Ignacio 2008.**“** Democracy and Populism in Latin America,” Kellogg Institute Working Paper #347–April.
http://kellogg.nd.edu/publications/workingpapers/WPS/347.pdf
**__Week 13 Issues in Democratization III__**
_a) Assessing Poverty and Inequality_
Movies: CITY OF GOD (2002, on Brazil)
MARIA, FULL OF GRACE (2004, on Colombia) 
O’D 1999, chapter 10 (pp. 195- 215, “Poverty and Inequality in Latin America”). 
SMTS 2009, chapter 4 (pp. 129-154 Foxley, Alejandro “More Market or More State for Latin America? A Reflection for the Post-Crisis”).
SMTS 2009, chapter 5 (pp. 155- 209 Huber, Evelyne and John D S. Stephens “Successful Policy Regimes? Political Economy, Politics, and Social Policy in Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, and Costa Rica”). 
_b)New Prospects for_ _Democracy and_ _Human Development in Latin America_
SMTS 2009, chapter 11 (pp. 365-395, Mainwaring Scott and Timothy Scully “Democratic Governance in Latin America: Eleven Lessons from Recent Experience.”)
UNDP (United Nations Development Programme) 2004 _Democracy in Latin America. Towards a Citizen’s Democracy._
_http://www.votb.org/elsalvador/Reports/Report_Democracy_in_Latin_America_New.pdf_
Human Development Report 2024 
**__Week 14 Second Exam__**
**__Week 15 Students’ Presentations of Case Studies__**
**__Week 16 Students’ Presentations of Case Studies__**
**_* Recommended readings and movies for students’ presentations_**.
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_10%_
####  其他： Others: Students’ Presentations 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**xpectations, Requirements, and Grading**
The course will combine lectures and active participation. Active participation requires that participants complete the assignments (readings, movies or video clips) as suggested for each class.
Attendance will have an impact in the final grade as well as active participation in class. Late arrivals past the 15’ will be considered half-absence. However, I would rather have students come late than being a no-show.
Grading will be based on the following:
Mid-term exam: 30 %
Second exam: 30%
Special presentation and overall participation: 40%
Each exam will be “in class” and will involve answering one question out of two. Books are allowed during the exam. 
The special presentation will have the format of a 20’ class on a country of choice. I expect teams of two participants. The goal of this special presentation is to gain in-depth knowledge of a country and discuss in comparative terms whether it fits or differs from the general trends in the region we will address during the course. All presentations should include Power Point.
**Laptops, Cell Phones, Etc.**
Laptops are allowed for taking notes. No cell phones whatsoever during class.
**Movies**
This course will include movies and when indicated they are required assignment as are other videos, clips and readings.
**Late Exams**
Since both exams are scheduled to be held in class, a no show-up needs to be justified with the Director of Undergraduate Studies. If there is a reasonable cause, I will set a new date for the exam. 
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
_Readings_
Anderson, Leslie. 2010. _Social Capital in Developing Democracies: Nicaragua and Argentina Compared._ Cambridge: Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Brysk, Alison. 1994. _The politics of human rights in Argentina : protest, change, and democratization_ : Stanford, Calif. : Stanford University Press.
Brinks, Daniel M. 2007. _Judicial Response to Police Killings in Latin America: Inequality and the Rule of Law_. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Cameron, Maxwell A. 1994a. _Democracy and authoritarianism in Peru : political coalitions and social change_ : New York : St. Martin's Press.
———. 1994b. _Democracy and authoritarianism in Peru : political coalitions and social change_ : New York : St. Martin's Press.
Cameron, Maxwell A., and Eric Hershberg. 2010. _Latin America's left turns : politics, policies, and trajectories of change_ : Boulder Colo. : Lynne Rienner Publishers.
Conaghan, Catherine M. "Ecuador: Correa's Plebiscitary Presidency." _Journal of Democracy_ 19 (2):46-60.
Haggard, Stephan, and Robert R. Kaufman. 1992. _The Politics of economic adjustment : international constraints, distributive conflicts, and the state_ : Princeton, N.J. : Princeton University Press.
Hunter, Wendy, and Timothy J. Power. "Lula's Brazil at Midterm." _Journal of Democracy_ 16 (3):127-39.
Kenney, Charles. 2004. _Fujimori's coup and the breakdown of democracy in Latin America_ : Notre Dame, Ind. : University of Notre Dame Press.
Levitsky, Steven. "Organization and Labor-Based Party Adaptation: The Transformation of Argentine Peronism in Comparative Perspective." _World Politics_ 54 (1):27-56.
Levitsky, Steven, and Maria Victoria Murillo. "Argentina: From Kirchner to Kirchner." _Journal of Democracy_ 19 (2):16-30.
Levy, Daniel C., Kathleen Bruhn, Emilio Zebadúa, and Emilio Zebadua. 2001. _Mexico : the struggle for democratic development_ : Berkeley : University of California Press.
Mainwaring, Scott. "The Crisis of Representation in the Andes." _Journal of Democracy_ 17 (3):13-27.
Mainwaring, Scott, Ana María Bejarano, and Eduardo Pizarro Leongómez. 2006. _The crisis of democratic representation in the Andes_ : Stanford, Calif. : Stanford University Press.
Mainwaring, Scott, Douglas A. Chalmers, and Alfred C. Stepan. 2012. _Problems confronting contemporary democracies essays in honor of Alfred Stepan_ : Notre Dame, Ind. : University of Notre Dame Press.
Mainwaring, Scott, and Timothy Scully. 1995. _Building democratic institutions : party systems in Latin America_ : Stanford, Calif. : Stanford University Press.
Mainwaring, Scott, and Matthew Soberg Shugart. 1997. _Presidentialism and democracy in Latin America_ : Cambridge ; New York : Cambridge University Press.
McClintock, Cynthia. "An Unlikely Comeback in Peru." _Journal of Democracy_ 17 (4):95-109.
McGuire, James W. 1997. _Peronism without Perón : unions, parties, and democracy in Argentina_ : Stanford, Calif. : Stanford University Press.
———. 2010. _Wealth, health, and democracy in East Asia and Latin America_ : New York : Cambridge University Press.
Murillo, Maria Victoria. 2001. _Labor unions, partisan coalitions and market reforms in Latin America_ : Cambridge, UK ; New York, NY, USA : Cambridge University Press.
O'Donnell, Guillermo A. 2007. _Dissonances : democratic critiques of democracy_ : Notre Dame, Ind. : University of Notre Dame Press.
Posada Carbó, Eduardo. "Colombia Hews to the Path of Change." _Journal of Democracy_ 17 (4):80-94.
Power, Timothy J., and Matthew MacLeod Taylor. 2011. _Corruption and democracy in Brazil : the struggle for accountability_ : Notre Dame, Ind. : University of Notre Dame Press.
Schedler, Andreas. "The Mobilization of Distrust." _Journal of Democracy_ 18 (1):88-102.
Selee, Andrew D., and Enrique Peruzzotti. 2009. _Participatory innovation and representative democracy in Latin America_ : Washington, D.C. : Woodrow Wilson Center Press ; Baltimore : Johns Hopkins University Press.
Snyder, Richard. 1999. _Institutional adaptation and innovation in rural Mexico_ : La Jolla : Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies, University of California, San Diego.
Sola, Lourdes. "Politics, Markets, and Society in Lula's Brazil." _Journal of Democracy_ 19 (2):31-45.
Stein, Ernesto, Mariano Tommasi, Carlos G. Scartascini, and Pablo T. Spiller. 2008. _Policymaking in Latin America : how politics shapes policies_ : Washington, DC : Inter-American Development Bank ; Cambridge, MA : David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies.
Stepan, Alfred C. 1989. _)_ xford University Press.
Valenzuela, Arturo. "Latin American Presidencies Interrupted." _Journal of Democracy_ 15 (4):5-19.
Valenzuela, Arturo, and Lucía Dammert. "Problems of Success in Chile." _Journal of Democracy_ 17 (4):65-79.
Van Cott, Donna Lee. 2005. _From movements to parties in Latin America : the evolution of ethnic politics_ : Cambridge ; New York : Cambridge University Press.
———. 2008. _Radical democracy in the Andes_ : Cambridge ; New York : Cambridge University Press.
Weyland, Kurt Gerhard, Raúl L. Madrid, and Wendy Hunter. 2010. _Leftist governments in Latin America : successes and shortcomings_ : New York : Cambridge University Press.
_Movies_
Che (2009, on Argentina and Latin America)
Dawson Isla 10 (on Chile)
Fidel Castro (2005, on Cuba)
Men with Guns (1998, on Guatemala)
Our Brand is Crisis (2005, on Bolivia)
State of Fear (2005, on Peru)
The Kiss of the Spider Woman (1985, on Brazil)
The revolution will not will Not be Televised (2003, on Venezuela)
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/08/12 Democracy_and_Development_in_Latin_AmericaNCCU2025 _1_.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Please write to the professor to make an appointment.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
