國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際合作專題 – 農業、經濟與貿易議題
#####  Course Name: Seminar in International Development - Issues of Agriculture, Economics and Trade
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：862950001 Course No.862950001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國研碩一、國研碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in International Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：李栢浡 Instructor: LEE PAI-PO 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This curriculum is aim to instruct the students to recognize the concept of management of International Development Cooperation. In addition to providing overviews of the evolution of development doctrine and the role of aid, this curriculum provides new empirical evidence on the effectiveness of aid.The course is divided into two parts and 24 chapters. The first part is the main themes of aid: including the history of aid, motivations and interests, the United Nations sustainable development goals(SDGs), official development assistance (ODA), aid effectiveness, bilateral and multilateral development, NGO involvement in development aid, etc. The second part is aid instruments, including project evaluation and formation, aid delivery, humanitarian aid, the impact of the Russo-Ukrainian war, goverance, education, food security and nutrition.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABC雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 掌握國際安全或國際合作發展實務與理論
  * B. 統整與分析國際資訊
  * C. 培養國際移動能力與國際公民價值


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Core Capability Program Description
A. Master the practice and theory of international security ,international development and cooperation  
B. Integrate and analyze international information related to United Nations Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs)  
C. Fostering International Mobility Capabilities and International Citizenship Values
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**WEEK 1: Orientation**
**_Part I Major themes_**
_Week2: Chapter1 Overview of International Development Cooperation_
_Chapter2 Motives and Aid Strategies_
Week 3: Chapter3 The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2022
_Week 4; Chapter4 Financing for Development_
_Week 5: Chapter5 Foreign Aid as a Policy Tool Development: An Overview_
_Week6: Chapter6 Official Bilateral Assistance_
_Week7: Chapter7 Multilateral Aid_
_Week8: Chapter8 The Role of NGOs in Development Cooperation_
**Week9: Midterm Examination**
**_Part II Aid instruments_**
_Week10: Chapter9 Managing Development Projects and Programs_
_Chapter10 Financial Aid Delivery_
_Week11: Chapter11 Emergency Relief and Humanitarian Assistance_
_Chapter12 Making Better Use of Data for Development Cooperation_
Week12: Chapter13 Governance for Youth, Trust and Intergenerational Justice Fit for All Generations?
_Chapter14 The Output of Educational Institutions and the Impact of Learning_
_Week13: Chapter15 The State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World_
_Chapyrt16 Investing in Climate, Investing in Growth: A Decisive Transition for Growth and Climate_
_Week14: Chapter17 Coronavirus_ _：_ _The world Economy at Risk Disaster or Trigger_
_Chapter18 Aid for Trade and Development_
Week15: Chapter19 Does Gender Discrimination in Social Institutions Matter for Long- 
term Growth? Cross-country Evidence
_Chapter20 Partnerships to Enhance Policy Coherence for Sustainable Development_
_Week16: Chaoter21 The Future of Rural Youth in Developing countries_ _：_ _Tapping the_
_Potential of local value Chain_
_Chapter22 The Development Dimension: Private Philanthropy for Development_
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class performance 40%
Midterm examine 30%
Final examine 30%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
1. Finn Tarp (ed). (2000). Foreign Aid and Development-Lessons Learnt and Directions for the Future. Routledge, Taylor & Francis Group
2. Ashok Chakravarti (2005). Aid, Institutions and Development—New Approaches to Growth, Governance and Poverty. Edward Elgar.
3. John Degnbol-Martinussen and Poul Engberg-Pedersen (2003). Aid: Understanding International Development Cooperation. Zed Books Ltd.
4. Robert Picciotto and Eduardo Wiesner (1998). Evaluation & Development-The Institutional Dimension. The World Bank. 
5. DAC Guidelines and Reference Series-Managing Aid: Practices of DAC Member Countries. OECD (2005).
6. OECD. (2024). Development Cooperation 2024. 
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Chairman, Global Cooperation & Development Corp.(OiDC)
Rm.5202,ZhiChing Bldg.,No. 16, Sec. 4, N. RD., Shihlin Dis.,Taipei City 11166 Taiwan,R.O.C.
Mobile:0928288914
Email: p.p.lee0929@gmail.com
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Dianie IM[IS 碩二
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
