國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：研究方法 
#####  Course Name: Research Method
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：922006001 Course No.922006001
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：外戰略一 Course Department:Master Program in Strategic and International Studies/M/1 
  * 授課老師：林碧炤 Instructor: LIN BIH-JAW 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：六234 Session: sat09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to help students in the Executive Master Program in Strategic and International Studies sponsored by the Department of Diplomacy, the College of International Affairs, National Chengchi University, to do their study as the Department required. It covers a general approach of humanities and social science, the technigues of inquiry and dissertation writing. A special attention is given to different case studies so as to provide more opportunities for students to learn about their areas of expertise and meet the future challenges. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The ultimate purpose of this program and, indeed, this course, is to recharge the intellectual batteries of our mid-career professionals who have chosen to study in National Chengchi University. Students will be able to know the theoretical aspects of strategic and international studies and the practical dimension of strategic and international issues and events. They will gain further knowledge and learn some practical experiences of previous cases, both successful and failed. An opportunity of networking with colleagues in the Department and the University as a whole is unique for the mid-creer professionals who want to learn more on their career path.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
1.Introduction(September 6th)
2.Scientifically Sound(September 6th)
3.Procedures of Inquiry(September 13th)
4.Socially Relevant(September 13th)
5.Philosophical Thinking(September 20th)
6. Breaks(September 27th-October 11th)
7.Political Judgement(October 18th)
8.Economic Calculation(October 18th)
9.Historical Lessons(October 18th)
10.Break(October 25th)
11.Case Study(November 1st)
12.Peace Research(November 8th)
13.Security Perspectives(November 15th)
14.Strategic Path(November 22nd)
15.Global and Paradigm Shift(November 29th)
16.Conflict Resolution(December 6th)
17.War Studies(December 13th)
18.Thinking Strategically About Taiwan(December 20th)
19.World Order(December 20th)
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.