國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：永續與共享城市
#####  Course Name: Sustainable and Sharing Cities
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：923882001 Course No.923882001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：地政專一、地政專二 Course Department:The Master Program of Land Economics/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：孫振義 Instructor: SUN CHEN-YI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三EFG Session: wed18-21


##  課程簡介Course Description
Part I:
Meeting fundamental human needs while preserving the life support systems of planet Earth will require a world-wide acceleration of today s halting progress in a transition toward sustainability. Understanding Sustainable Cities: Concepts, Cases, and Solutions presents a plethora of subject matters in urban sustainability. Understanding Sustainable Cities: Concepts, Cases, and Solutions provides both instructors and students with in-depth knowledge about crosscutting issues, concepts, and solutions inherent in modern sustainability thinking. Understanding Sustainable Cities: Concepts, Cases, and Solutions: Illustrates how cities can and have applied concepts such as Ecological Footprint, modeling urban sustainability, sustainability indicators, urban adaptation, and climate action planning into their programs, policies, and urban planning and design. Is interdisciplinary and broad-based, reflective of sustainability science itself not directed at any specific technical field or audience. Discusses values and ethics (philosophy), perceptions and behavior (social sciences), green infrastructure (urban ecology and green networks), restoration of cities and place-making (urban planning), green design (urban design and architecture), urban policies and programs (public policy and public administration), and learning from the earliest cities (anthropology and archaeology). Can be used as a supplement in other environmental, sustainability, geology, anthropology, and social sciences classes in which the professor wishes to cover selected issues in sustainable cities or sustainability. 
Part II:
How cities can build on the "sharing economy" and smart technology to deliver a "sharing paradigm" that supports justice, solidarity, and sustainability.
The future of humanity is urban, and the nature of urban space enables, and necessitates, sharing -- of resources, goods and services, experiences. Yet traditional forms of sharing have been undermined in modern cities by social fragmentation and commercialization of the public realm. In Sharing Cities, Duncan McLaren and Julian Agyeman argue that the intersection of cities' highly networked physical space with new digital technologies and new mediated forms of sharing offers cities the opportunity to connect smart technology to justice, solidarity, and sustainability. McLaren and Agyeman explore the opportunities and risks for sustainability, solidarity, and justice in the changing nature of sharing.
McLaren and Agyeman propose a new "sharing paradigm," which goes beyond the faddish "sharing economy" -- seen in such ventures as Uber and TaskRabbit -- to envision models of sharing that are not always commercial but also communal, encouraging trust and collaboration. Detailed case studies of San Francisco, Seoul, Copenhagen, Medellín, Amsterdam, and Bengaluru (formerly Bangalore) contextualize the authors' discussions of collaborative consumption and production; the shared public realm, both physical and virtual; the design of sharing to enhance equity and justice; and the prospects for scaling up the sharing paradigm though city governance. They show how sharing could shift values and norms, enable civic engagement and political activism, and rebuild a shared urban commons. Their case for sharing and solidarity offers a powerful alternative for urban futures to conventional "race-to-the-bottom" narratives of competition, enclosure, and division.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
1. An Introduction to Sustainability Concepts and Principles
2. History of Sustainability
3. Earliest Urbanism
4. Environmental and Social Justice
5. Managing Water Resources: The Central Issue for Sustaining Life
6. Making Desert Cities Sustainable
7. Sustainable Transportation
8. Coping with Global Climate Change
9. The Urban Heat Island Effect and Sustainability Science
10. Sustainable Agricultural Systems for Cities
11. Urban Ecology and Green Networks
12. Examining Sustainability through Urban Models
13. Learning Outcomes in Sustainability Education
14. Sharing city case study A, B and C
15. Sharing city case study D, E and F
16. Final report (1)~(3)
17. Final report (4)~(6)
18. Invitation speech
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**週次** **Week** |  **課程主題** **Topic** |  **課程內容與指定閱讀** **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **教學活動與作業** **Teaching Activities and Homework** |  **學習投入時間** **Student workload expectation**  
---|---|---|---|---  
**課堂講授** **In-class** **Hours** |  **課程前後** **Outside of-class** **Hours**  
1  |  Sustainability Concepts and Principles |  Text book chapter 1 |  Teaching & discussion |  3 |  1  
2  |  History of Sustainability |  Text book chapter 2 |  Teaching & discussion |  3 |  1  
3  |  Earliest Urbanism |  Text book chapter 3 |  Teaching & discussion |  3 |  1  
4  |  Environmental and Social Justice |  Text book chapter 4 |  Teaching & discussion & Homework |  3 |  2  
5  |  Managing Water Resources: The Central Issue for Sustaining Life |  Text book chapter 5 |  Teaching & discussion |  3 |  1  
6  |  Making Desert Cities Sustainable |  Text book chapter 6 |  Teaching & discussion |  3 |  1  
7  |  Sustainable Transportation |  Text book chapter 7 |  Teaching & discussion |  3 |  1  
8  |  Coping with Global Climate Change |  Text book chapter 8 |  Teaching & discussion & Homework |  3 |  2  
9  |  The Urban Heat Island Effect and Sustainability Science |  Text book chapter 9 |  Teaching & discussion |  3 |  1  
10  |  Sustainable Agricultural Systems for Cities |  Text book chapter 10 |  Teaching & discussion |  3 |  1  
11  |  Urban Ecology and Green Networks |  Text book chapter 11 |  Teaching & discussion |  3 |  1  
12  |  Examining Sustainability through Urban Models |  Text book chapter 12 |  Teaching & discussion |  3 |  1  
13  |  Learning Outcomes in Sustainability Education |  Text book chapter 13 |  Teaching & discussion & Homework |  3 |  2  
14  |  Sharing city case study A, B and C |  Text book |  Teaching & discussion |  2 |  2  
15  |  Sharing city case study D, E and F |  Text book |  Teaching & discussion |  2 |  2  
16  |  Final report (1)~(3) |  N/A |  Report (team work) |  0 |  5  
17  |  self-study |  N/A |  self-study |  0 |  5  
18  |  self-study |  N/A | self-study |  0 |  5  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_15%_
####  討論 Discussion
_25%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_5%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_5%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
分組報告50%
課堂互動30%
出席狀況20%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
1.David Pijawka & Martin A. Gromulat (2012) Understanding Sustainable Cities: Concepts, Cases, and Solutions (First Edition), Kendall Hunt.
2.Duncan McLaren and‎ Julian Agyeman (2017) Sharing Cities: A Case for Truly Smart and Sustainable Cities (Urban and Industrial Environments), The MIT Press.
3. Gereon Meyer and Susan Shaheen (2017) Disrupting mobility : impacts of sharing economy and innovative transportation on cities, Springer International.
4. Eleonora Riva Sanseverino, Raffaella Riva Sanseverino, Valentina Vaccaro (2017) Smart cities atlas : western and eastern intelligent communities, Springer International.
5. Anna Brdulak, Halina Brdulak (2017) Happy city - how to plan and create the best livable area for the people, Springer International.
6. Anil Ahuja (2016) Integration of nature and technology for smart cities, Springer International.
7. John Preston, Jane M Binner, Layla Branicki, Tobias Galla, Nick Jones, James King, Magdalini Kolokitha, Michalis Smyrnakis (2015) City evacuations : an interdisciplinary approach, Berlin, Heidelberg : Springer.
8. Vangelis Angelakis, Elias Tragos, Henrich C. Pohls, Adam Kapovits, Alessandro Bassi (2017) Designing, developing, and facilitating smart cities : urban design to IoT solutions ,Springer International.
9. T.M. Vinod Kumar (2017) Smart economy in smart cities : international collaborative research: Ottawa, St.Louis, Stuttgart, Bologna, Cape Town, Nairobi, Dakar, Lagos, New Delhi, Varanasi, Vijayawada, Kozhikode, Hong Kong , Singapore, Springer.
10. Marta Peris-Ortiz, Dag R. Bennett, Diana Perez-Bustamante Yabar (2017) Sustainable smart cities : creating spaces for technological, social and business development, Springer International.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:作業運用AI時需要敘明運用方式 Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
 N/A
 

```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
週五 16:00-18:00 (事先預約)
綜合院館南棟6F-270504
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
N/A
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
