國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：中國政治經濟發展
#####  Course Name: The Political Economy of China's Development
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：926850001 Course No.926850001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_2_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太碩一、亞太碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：黃兆年 Instructor: HUANG JAW-NIAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12 


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course aims to provide students with a fundamental understanding of China's economic, social, and political development since 1978. Four main themes are involved. The first is the introduction. We will introduce this course with a discussion on the universality and particularity of the "China Model" from a comparative perspective. The second theme is economic transformation. We will explore China's industrialization and engagement with the world economy after the 1978 reform and opening up by examining the roles of the central government, local governments, the financial system, the fiscal system, state-owned enterprises, private enterprises, and foreign enterprises. The third theme is social changes. We will investigate the impacts that economic transformation brought to society in many aspects, including the urban-rural divide, social stratification, the one-child policy and its impact on demographics, as well as environmental issues. The fourth theme is political development. We will explore the implications of economic development for the prospect of democracy in China, as well as the impact that China's rise might bring to international political development. Moreover, we will show to and discuss with students three selected movies related to the topics in the course, with an aim to improve students' understanding of some critical scenarios in the processes of China's political and economic development.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
Students will be equipped with the ability to interpret and analyze the causes, logic, and consequences of China's political and economic development. Considering the current trend of China's rise, such capacity will be beneficial to students' career development whether in academic circles or practical fields.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Date** |  **Theme/Activity** |  **Learning Hours**  
---|---|---|---  
**Class** |  **Preparation**  
1 |  9/4 |  **Introduction** |  3 |  0  
2 |  9/11 |  **The China Model – A Comparative View**
  * Studwell, Joe. 2013. “Introduction.” In _How Asia Works: Success and Failure in the World’s Most Dynamic Region_ , xiii–xxv. London: Profile Books.
  * Naughton, Barry, and Kellee S. Tsai. 2015. “Introduction: State Capitalism and the Chinese Economic Miracle.” In _State Capitalism, Institutional Adaptation, and the Chinese Miracle_ , 27–45. Cambridge University Press.

|  3 |  5  
**Economic Transformation**  
3 |  9/18 |  **Basic Economic Strategy**
  * Shirk, Susan L. 1993. “The Political Logic of Economic Reform.” In _The Political Logic of Economic Reform in China_ , 3–22. Berkeley: University of California Press.
  * Naughton, Barry. 2018. _The Chinese Economy: Adaptation and Growth_. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press. (Ch. 5)

|  3 |  5  
4 |  9/25 |  **The Rural Economy**
  * Naughton, Barry. 2018. _The Chinese Economy: Adaptation and Growth_. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press. (Ch. 11 & 12)

|  3 |  5  
5 |  10/2 |  **Movie Discussion** |  3 |  1  
6 |  10/9 |  **Industrialization**
  * Naughton, Barry. 2018. _The Chinese Economy: Adaptation and Growth_. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press. (Ch. 13 & 15)

|  3 |  5  
7 |  10/16 |  **Engaging in the World Economy**
  * Naughton, Barry. 2018. _The Chinese Economy: Adaptation and Growth_. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press. (Ch. 16 & 17)

|  3 |  5  
8 |  10/23 |  **Midterm Exam Week - Essay Paper** |  0 |  5  
9 |  10/30 |  **The Enterprise System**
  * Naughton, Barry. 2018. _The Chinese Economy: Adaptation and Growth_. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press. (Ch. 14 & 18)

|  3 |  5  
10 |  11/6 |  **The Financial and Fiscal Systems**
  * Naughton, Barry. 2018. _The Chinese Economy: Adaptation and Growth_. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press. (Ch. 19 & 20)

|  3 |  5  
**Social Changes**  
11 |  11/13 |  **Urban-Rural Divide and Income Inequality**
  * Naughton, Barry. 2018. _The Chinese Economy: Adaptation and Growth_. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press. (Ch. 6 & 10)

|  3 |  5  
12 |  11/20 |  **Movie Discussion** |  3 |  1  
13 |  11/27 |  **Demographics and the Labor Market**
  * Naughton, Barry. 2018. _The Chinese Economy: Adaptation and Growth_. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press. (Ch. 8 & 9)

**Environmental Pollution and Economic Sustainability**
  * Naughton, Barry. 2018. _The Chinese Economy: Adaptation and Growth_. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press. (Ch. 21)

|  3 |  5  
**Political Development**  
14 |  12/4 |  **Economic Development and the Prospect for Democracy in China**
  * Nathan, Andrew J. 2003. “China’s Changing of the Guard: Authoritarian Resilience.” _Journal of Democracy_ 14 (1): 6–17.
  * Dickson, Bruce J. 2003. “Conclusion.” In _Red Capitalists in China: The Party, Private Entrepreneurs, and Prospects for Political Change_ , 157–171. New York: Cambridge University Press.

_Suggested_ :
  * Li, Cheng. 2012. “The End of the CCP’s Resilient Authoritarianism? A Tripartite Assessment of Shifting Power in China.” _The China Quarterly_ 211 (September): 595–623.
  * Nathan, Andrew J. 2013. “China at the Tipping Point? Foreseeing the Unforeseeable.” _Journal of Democracy_ 24 (1): 20–25.

|  3 |  5  
15 |  12/11 |  **China’s Rise and International Political Development**
  * Kurlantzick, Joshua, and Perry Link. 2009. “China: Resilient, Sophisticated Authoritarianism.” In _Undermining Democracy: 21st Century Authoritarians_ , edited by Christopher Walker, 13–28. Washington, D.C.: Freedom House.
  * Walker, Christopher, and Jessica Ludwig. 2017. “From ‘Soft Power’ to ‘Sharp Power’: Rising Authoritarian Influence in the Democratic World.” In _Sharp Power: Rising Authoritarian Influence_ , edited by Christopher Walker and Jessica Ludwig. Washington, D.C.: National Endowment for Democracy.

|  3 |  5  
16 |  12/18 |  **Final Exam Week - Essay Paper** |  0 |  5  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_40%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  1. Attendance (10% of course grade): Students are required to come to classes. The grade is decided by the student's level of attendance.
  2. Participation (20% of course grade): Students are expected to read assigned readings and participate in class discussions. The grade is decided by the quantity and quality of the student's engagement in the class. 
  3. Reading guides (20% of course grade): Each student will have the opportunity to serve as a lead discussant for about two assigned readings during the semester. He or she must present the assigned reading, provide comments, and raise questions to facilitate class discussions.
  4. Essay papers (50% of course grade): Each student must independently write two 5-page essay papers based on assigned readings to respond to the teacher's questions. The two papers are respectively due in the midterm and final exam weeks. The questions will be announced one week earlier. There will be one week for students to work on their essays at home. The papers must be submitted to Moodle by the deadline set by the teacher.


*To ensure fairness and enhance the learning experience, the use of generative AI tools for writing mid-term and final essays is prohibited in this course. The teacher will reference the results of detection software and may meet with students suspected of using AI for writing. If it is confirmed that the report was generated by AI, it will be scored as zero.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
禁止使用:As stated above. Prohibited Uses
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
  1. Time: By appointment 
  2. Location: Room #270712 at the General Building


###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
