國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：人性與存有：民族誌與人類學觀點
#####  Course Name: Being Human: Ethnography and Anthropological Perspective
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：926849001 Course No.926849001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_2_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太碩一、亞太碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：何浩慈 Instructor: HO HAO-TZU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二567 Session: tue14-17


##  課程簡介Course Description
The rapid development of artificial intelligence has created ethical debates about whether a robot, if one day it has self-consciousness, should be treated like a human being. Likewise, a growing demand for psychological therapies has resulted in/from the quest for meanings and purposes of being alive. Underlying these contemplations is a fundamental question: What makes a human a human? This course aims to facilitate discussions and provide potential answers from academic literature. 
Based on anthropological theory, ethnography, and cross-cultural comparison, this course introduces the formation of human society, life stages, and the phenomenology of ‘being human’. In the past ten years, there has been a trend of thought in the humanities and social sciences, debating the social and personal aspects of the positive sides of social life, such as expectations, dignity, values, ethics, empathy, care, freedom, and hope. This course will examine the subjective and objective conditions of well-being, reflecting on how well-being is perceived, defined, and created. Through lectures, class discussions, student presentations on the required readings, and field trips/documentaries/guest speeches, this course attempts to cultivate students’ ability to care for society and themselves.
This course begins with introducing basic concepts and epistemology of anthropological theory and ethnography. We will unpack what anthropologists have called ‘culture’ and ‘society’ and consider how themes of this kind lead to a reconsideration of how anthropological theory and ethnographies might be useful for comprehending the development of humanity. After providing an overview, each week’s topic will focus on key issues discussed in the sub-fields of Cognitive and Psychological Anthropology, Medical Anthropology, Religious Anthropology, Environmental Anthropology, and Positive Anthropology. Throughout, this course will focus on the relationship between self and society and that between mind, body, and the more intangible aspects such as emotion and spirit. We will look at how universal human capabilities develop and are used during different stages of life to create unique cultural understandings and practices.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course contains lectures, student presentations and in-class discussions. These activities are based on reading materials and the instructor's lecture slides. Apart from lectures, students are expected to summarise reading materials on the topic(s) they sign-up for at the beginning of the term and present their thoughts in the class (at least 1 presentation, depending on the class size). This course will emphasise analytical perspectives and critical thinking. Students are required to read before classes and bring their reflections and questions to in-class discussions. In addition to presentations, students are expected to write reading notes. Finally, this course encourages students to apply their knowledge to the real world by analysing a case related to the topics mentioned in this course. Students are expected to demonstrate their findings both in presentations and written works.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Week 1 Introduction & Logistics
Instructor away for conference; no class. Sessions in Weeks 2, 3, and 4 will be extended by 1 hour.
Week 2 Anthropological Perspective and Cross-cultural Comparison
* Class will be extended by 1 hour and will end at 6 p.m. 
Reference Readings
1. Kuper, A. 1983 Anthropology and Anthropologists: the Modern British School. London: Routledge.
2. Leach, E 1966 “Chapter 1” of Rethinking Anthropology, London, Berg.
3. Bock, K. E. (1966). The Comparative Method of Anthropology. Comparative Studies in Society and History, 8(3), 269–280.
4. Borofsky, Robert. 2019. Where Have the Comparisons Gone? Society for Cultural Anthropology.
Week 3 Ethnographic Methodology 1: An Approach Both Top-Down and Bottom-Up
* Class will be extended by 1 hour and will end at 6 p.m. 
Required Readings
1. Moore, H.L. & T. Sanders (eds.) 2006 Anthropology in Theory: Issues in Epistemology.
2. Clifford, James. 1988. The Predicament of Culture: Twentieth-Century Ethnography, Literature, and Art. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. Chapter 12, 277-346: Identity in Mashpee. 
3. Shah, Alpa. (2017) Ethnography? Participant observation, a potentially revolutionary praxis. HAU: Journal of Ethnographic Theory, 7 (1). pp. 1-15. 
Week 4 Ethnographic Methodology 2: Fieldwork
* Class will be extended by 1 hour and will end at 6 p.m. 
Required Readings
1. M. Bloch, How We Think They Think (1998).
2. Holland, Dorothy, and Kevin Leander. 2004. Ethnographic Studies of Positioning and Subjectivity: An Introduction. Ethos 32(2): 127-139.
3. Jenkins, Timothy. “Fieldwork and the Perception of Everyday Life.” Man 29, no. 2 (1994): 433–55.
4. Ho, Hao-Tzu. 2019. Cosmopolitan Locavorism: Global Local-food Movements in Postcolonial Hong Kong. Food, Culture & Society 23(2): 137-154.
Week 5 Phenomenology of Humanity: Death, Living and the Person
Required Readings
1. Shweder, R.A., Bourne, E.J. (1982). Does the Concept of the Person Vary Cross-Culturally? In: Marsella, A.J., White, G.M. (eds) Cultural Conceptions of Mental Health and Therapy. Culture, Illness, and Healing, vol 4.
2. Astuti, R. (2008) What happens after death? In Astuti, R., Parry, J. & Stafford, C. (eds) Questions of anthropology, pp. 227-247. Berg.
3. Kaufman, Sharon R., and Lynn M. Morgan. 2005. The Anthropology of the Beginnings and Ends of Life. Annual Review of Anthropology 34:317–341.
4. Conklin, B. and L. Morgan. 1996. Babies, Bodies, and the Production of Personhood in North America and a Native Amazonian Society. Ethos 24(4):657-694.
Week 6 Memory, Self and Society
Required Readings
1. Spiro, M. E. (1993). Is the Western conception of the self ‘peculiar’ within the context of the world cultures? Ethos 21(2): 107-153. 
2. Ewing, Katherine P. 1990. The Illusion of Wholeness: Culture, Self, and the Experience of Inconsistency. Ethos 18(3): 251-278.
3. Kenny, M. G. (1999). A Place for Memory: The Interface between Individual and Collective History. Comparative Studies in Society and History, 41(3), 420–437.
4. Gila S. Silverman, Aurélien Baroiller & Susan R. Hemer (2021) Culture and grief: Ethnographic perspectives on ritual, relationships and remembering, Death Studies, 45:1, 1-8.
Week 7 Kinship, Relationships and Relatedness
Required Readings
1. Carsten, J. 2004. Introduction: After Kinship? Chapter 1 from After Kinship, pp. 1-30. 
2. Carsten, J. 1995. The Substance of Kinship and the Heat of the Hearth: Feeding, Personhood, and Relatedness among Malays in Pulau Langkawi. American Ethnologist 22, no. 2: 223-241.
3. Carrier, J. 1999. People Who Can Be Friends: Selves and Social Relationships. In S. Bell & S. Coleman (eds) The Anthropology of Friendship.
4. Jackson, M. 2002. Familiar and foreign bodies: a phenomenological exploration of the human-technology interface. Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute 8(2): 333-46.
Week 8 Religion and Spirituality 
Required Readings
1. Boyer, P (2000) Functional origins of religious concepts: ontological and strategic selection in evolved minds. Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute (N.S.) 6: 195-214.
2. Barrett, J. L. (2000). Exploring the natural foundations of religion. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 4: 29-34.
3. Cassaniti, J. L., & Luhrmann, T. M. (2014). The Cultural Kindling of Spiritual Experiences. Current Anthropology, 55(S10), S333–S343.
Week 9 Emotion, feeling and Affect
Required Readings
1. Beatty, A. (2005). Emotions in the Field: What Are We Talking About? The Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute, 11(1), 17–37.
2. Danilyn Rutherford. 2016. Affect Theory and the Empirical. Annual Review of Anthropology 45:1, 285-300.
3. Skoggard, I. and Waterston, A. (2015), Introduction: Toward an Anthropology of Affect and Evocative Ethnography. Anthropology of Conscious, 26: 109-120.
4. Sangren, P. S. 2004. Psychoanalysis and Its Resistances in Michel Foucault's "The
History of Sexuality": Lessons for Anthropology. Ethos 32, no. 1: 110-122.
Week 10 Treatment & Healing 
Required Readings
1. SIDKY, H. (2009), A Shaman's Cure: The Relationship Between Altered States of Consciousness and Shamanic Healing. Anthropology of Consciousness, 20: 171-197.
2. Ismael Apud & Oriol Romaní (2020) Medical anthropology and symbolic cure: from the placebo to cultures of meaningful healing, Anthropology & Medicine, 27:2, 160-175.
3. Moerman, D. E. (1979). Anthropology of Symbolic Healing. Current Anthropology, 20(1), 59–80.
Week 11 Alternative Therapies
Required Readings
1. Marcus, O. (2022), Consume and Transform: Perfumes and healing in vegetalista healing practices of the Peruvian Amazon. Anthropology of Conscious.
2. Charles D. Laughlin (2018) Meditation across cultures: a neuroanthropological approach, Time and Mind, 11:3, 221-257.
3. Cook, J. and Cassaniti, J. (2022), Mindfulness and culture. Anthropology Today, 38: 1-3.
4. Myers, N., Lewis, S. & Dutton, M.A. Open Mind, Open Heart: An Anthropological Study of the Therapeutics of Meditation Practice in the US. Cult Med Psychiatry 39, 487–504 (2015).
Week 12 Care: For Others and One’s Self
1. Hsu, E. (2025). An Introduction to the Medical Anthropology of Care and Self-Care. Medical Anthropology, 44(2), 97–108.
2. Hoppe S. (2020). The other within oneself: Understanding care for a family member with Early‐Onset dementia through the lens of dividuality. Ethos, 48(2), 231-249.
3. Rosenbaum, S. and Talmor, R. (2022), Self-Care. Feminist Anthropology, 3: 362-372.
Week 13 Happiness & Well-being
Required Readings
1. ORTNER, S. 2016. Dark anthropology and its others: theory since the eighties. HAU: Journal of Ethnographic Theory 6, 47–73.
2. JOHNSTON, B., E. COLSON, D. FALK, ET AL. 2012. On Happiness. American Anthropologist 114, 6–18. 
3. MOORE, H. L. 1990. ‘Visions of the good life’: anthropology and the study of utopia. Cambridge Anthropology 14, 13–33. 
Week 14 Empathy & Hope 
Required Readings
1. Geertz, C (1983) “`From the native’s point of view’: On the nature of anthropological understanding” originally published in Bulletin of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Vol. 28, No. 1. (1974), pp. 26-45.
2. C. JASON THROOP. “Suffering, Empathy, and Ethical Modalities of Being in Yap (Waqab), Federated States of Micronesia.” The Anthropology of Empathy. 1st ed. Berghahn Books, 2011.
3. CHUA, J. L. 2014. In pursuit of the good life: aspiration and suicide in globalizing South India. Berkeley: University of California Press. 
Week 15 Case Study Presentation.
Week 16 Completing term paper. No class.
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  1. _Attendance & Participation (2_ _5_ _%)_
  2. _Required Readings (35%)_
  3. _Group Presentation (20%)_
  4. _Individual Reading Notes (15%)_
  5. _Case Study (Individual) (40%)_
  6. _Oral Presentation (20%)_
  7. _Written Work (20%)_


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  1. C. Strauss and N Quinn, A Cognitive Theory of Cultural Meaning (1997) 
  2. M. Bloch, How We Think They Think (1998)
  3. D. Sperber, Explaining Culture (1996)
  4. M. Cole, Cultural Psychology (1996)
  5. M. Tomasello, The Cultural Origins of Human Cognition (1999)
  6. P. Boyer, Religion Explained (2001).
  7. E. Hutchins, Cognition in the Wild.
  8. J. Lave, Cognition in Practice.
  9. R. Astuti, G. Solomon and S. Carey, Constraints on Conceptual Development.
  10. CHUA, J. L. 2014. _In pursuit of the good life: aspiration and suicide in globalizing South India_. Berkeley: University of California Press. 
  11. DAVIES, W. 2015. _The happiness industry: how the government and big business sold us well-being_. London: Verso. 
  12. FISCHER, E. F. 2014. _The good life: aspiration, dignity, and the anthropology of wellbeing_. Stanford: Stanford University Press. 
  13. JOHNSTON, B., E. COLSON, D. FALK, ET AL. 2012. On Happiness. _American Anthropologist_ 114, 6–18. 
  14. KAVEDŽIJA, I. & H. WALKER (eds) 2016. _Values of happiness: toward an anthropology of purpose in life._ Chicago: HAU Books.
  15. MATHEWS, G. & C. IZQUIERDO 2009. _Pursuits of happiness: well-being in anthropological perspective_. New York: Berghahn Books. 
  16. MOORE, H. L. 1990. ‘Visions of the good life’: anthropology and the study of utopia. _Cambridge Anthropology_ 14, 13–33. 


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:For data collection and discussion purposes only. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
