國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：兩岸與東亞的區域發展 
#####  Course Name: Taiwan-China and East Asia Regional Development
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：926949001 Course No.926949001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_12_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：亞太碩一、亞太碩二 Course Department:International Master's Program in Asia-Pacific Studies/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：莊奕琦 Instructor: CHUANG YIH-CHYI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16


##  課程簡介Course Description
The goal of this course is to examine the various fundamental issues of Asian regional development so that students will gain enough knowledge to understand the development characteristics as well as the economic dynamics of the region.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The course will focus on the study of growth triangles in Asia, patterns of trade and investment, the process of integration, the role of China in Asian regional development, financial system and monetary integration, future development, and the consequences for the global economy.
**Course Contents:**
I. Asian Economic Integration
  * An overview
  * Comparative advantage and division of labor in Asia
  * Growth Triangles: market-driven integration
  * Economic dynamics in Asia: Flying geese pattern of development
  * FDI and trade in Asia (intra-industry, inter-industry, and intraregional trade)
  * The effect of globalization and ICT revolution
  * The regional production networks: the IT industry


II. Institutional Arrangement of Economic Cooperation in Asia
  * Globalization and regionalism (closed vs. open regionalism)
  * ASEAN FTA
  * China and ASEAN: competition or cooperation?
  * Prospects for Economic Integration in Asia: ASEAN+1, +3, +6, RCEP or TPP?
  * Will Taiwan be marginalized?
  * Cross-strait economic cooperation: ECFA
  * The One Belt and One Road Initiative
  * Taiwan’s New Going-South Policy


III. The Rise of China and Cross-strait Relations
  * Economic development of China after 30 years of Reform
  * The economic development strategy in China
  * The role of foreign direct investment
  * Special Economic Zones (SEZs) and the Greater Chinese Economic Zone
  * Challenges confronting the Chinese economy
  * The implication of the 2008 global financial crisis on China’s economic development
  * The cross-strait economic relations: trade and investment
  * The role of Taiwan in Asian regional development
  * ECFA and its implications for Asian Economic integration
  * The effect of One Belt and One Road Initiative
  * China’s OBOR initiative and Taiwan's New Southbound Policy: some implications
  * The effect of China-US trade war


VI. Financial system and monetary integration
  * The role of the financial sector
  * Asian financial crisis
  * Asian common currency
  * China’s financial problems
  * The view of modern monetary theory


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
1. Every week in-class students presentation, discussion and commments
2. Mid-term project proposal for the final term paper
3. Lectures for listed topics and issues
Week 1 Introduction of Course and Its Related Topics   
Week 2 The Evolution of Asian Economic Integration  
Week 3 Market-Driven Integration vs. Institution-Led Integration  
Week 4 FDI, Trade, and Regional Production Network   
Week 5 China and ASEAN: competition or cooperation?  
Week 6 Prospects for Economic Integration in Asia: ECFA, ASEAN+1, +3, +6, RCEP or TPP (CPTTP), Indo-Pacific Economic Framework (IPEF)  
Week 7 The China-US Trade War and Economic Decoupling  
Week 8 Mid-term Exam  
Week 9 Taiwan’s New Southbound Policy  
Week 10 The One Belt and One Road Initiative  
Week 11 The Cross-Strait Relations: Retrospect and Prospect  
Week 12 The Challenges Confronting Chinese Economy  
Week 13 Trader War, Technology War, and Implications of High Tariff Policy  
Week 14 Asian financial crisis and Asian Common Currency  
Week 15 A Review of Fiscal Policy and Monetary Policy  
Week 16 Final Exam  

##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_40%_
####  討論 Discussion
_0%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_20%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
No prerequisite is required for the course. There will be in-class current issue presentations and discussion by subject, a mid-term project proposal (research questions and literature review), and a final term paper. The semester grade is determined by the in-class presentation (50%), the mid-term proposal presentation (10%), and the final term paper (40%). _Bonus will be given for creative class discussion_ and regular class attendance is expected. Absence without notice will be considered in the final grading.
The deadline for the term paper is on the 25th of December, 2025, and _all term papers should be submitted by e-mail (to: ycchuang@nccu.edu.tw) with student number as the file name_. Submission of term paper after the deadline will be subject to heavy penalty towards the grade. 
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Suggested books:**
  1. Thompson, Grahame F., 1998, _Economic Dynamism in the Asia-Pacific_ , Routledge.
  2. Thant, Myo, Min Tang, and Hiroshi Kakazu, 1998, _Growth Triangles in Asia_ , 2nd ed., Oxford University Press.
  3. Rugman, Alan M., Gavin Boyd, 1999, _Deepening Integration in the Pacific Economies_ , Edward Elgar.
  4. *木村福成、九屋豐二郎、石川幸一，《經略中國，布局大亞洲》，經濟新潮社，2004。
  5. Wolf, Charles Jr., K. C. Yeh, Benjamin Zycher, Nicholas Eberstadt, Sung-Ho Lee, 2003, _Fault Lines in_ _China’s Economic_ _Terrain_ , Department of Defense, and the Smith Richardson Foundation, RAND National Defense Research Institute.
  6. The Asian Development Bank, 2005, _Asian Economic Cooperation and Integration: Progress, Prospects and Challenges_.
  7. *Wiemer, Calla and Heping Cao, 2004, _Asian Economic Cooperation in the New Millennium: China’s Economic Presence_ , World Scientific Publishing.
  8. *Lincoln, Edward J., 2004, _East Asian Economic Regionalism_ , Washington, D.C.: Brooking Institution Press.
  9. *Yuzsuf, Ahahid, 2003, _Innovative East Asia: the Future of Growth_ , Washington, D.C., The World Bank.
  10. Plummer, Michael G. and Erik Jones, 2006,_International Economic Integration and Asia,_ New Jersey, N.J. : World Scientific.
  11. Indermit Gill, Yukon Huang, and Homi Kharas, 2006, _East Asian Vision: Perspectives on Economic Development_ , the World Bank and the Institute of Policy Studies. (http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INTEASTASIAPACIFIC/Resources/226262-1158262834989/EA_Visions_full.pdf#page=191)
  12. Yusuf, Shahid, M. Anjum Altaf, and Kaoru Nabeshima, 2004, Global Production Networking and Technological Change in East Asia, The World Bank.
  13. Francois J., G. Wignaraja, and P. Rana, 2009, Pan-Asian Integration: Linking East and South Asia, Asian Development Bank.
  14. Asian Development Bank, 2011, Asia 2050: Realizing the Asian Century, http://www.unido.org/fileadmin/user_media/UNIDO_Worldwide/Asia_and_Pacific_Programme/Documents/AsianDevelopmentBankreport_asia-2050.pdf
  15. Rosen Daniel H. and Zhi Wang, 2011, The Implications of China-Taiwan Economic Liberalization, Peterson Institute for International Economics, Washington, D.C.
  16. Lam Peng Er, Qin Yaqing, and Yang Mu, 2012, _China and East Asia : after the Wall Street crisis_ , Singapore : World Scientific Publishing Company.
  17. Jing Bo-jiun, 2016,_Taiwan and Southeast Asia : opportunities and constraints of continued engagement_ , Baltimore, Maryland : Carey School of Law, University of Maryland.
  18. Jayanthakumaran, Kankesu, 2016, Industrialization and Challenges in Asia, Palgrave Macmillan.


Useful Website for Asian regional data: http://aric.adb.org/
**Reading list**
ASIAN ECONOMIC INTEGRATION
Munakata Naoko, 2002, “Whither East Asian Economic Integration?” CNAPS
working paper, Brookings Institute. (www.brookoings.edu/fp/cnaps/papers/2001_munakata.htm)
Ozawa, T., 2003, “Pax Americana-led Catch-up, Flying-Geese Style: Regionalized 
Endogenous Growth in East Asia, Journal of Asian Economics, 13, 699-713, also in Wiemer and Cao, 2004, 153-174.
(http://www0.gsb.columbia.edu/null/WP205?exclusive=filemgr.download&file_id=592816&showthumb=0)
Kasahara, Shigehisa , 2004, “The Flying Geese Paradigm: A Critical Study of Its Application 
To East Asian Regional Development”, Discussion paper, UNCTAD. (http://www.unctad.org/en/docs/osgdp20043_en.pdf)
Cheow, Eric and Teo Chu, 2004, “Strategic Relevance of Asian Economic Integration”, 
paper presented at Second High-level Conference on Building a New Asia towards an Asian Economic Community, Tokyo, 18-19 Nov. 2004.
Park, Sung-Hoon, 2002, “East Asian Economic Integration- finding a balance between
regionalism and multilateralism”, European Institute for Asian Studies Briefing Paper.
Kim, Won Bae, 2004, “Inter-Local Cross-Border Cooperation as a Catalyst for Economic 
Cooperation in Northeast Asia”, Korea Research Institute for Human Settlements.
Elek, Andrew, 2003, “East Asian Economic Integration: critical policy choices”, PECC
Trade Forum, Pacific Economic Cooperation Council, Thailand.
Urata, Shujiro, 2002, “A Shift from Market-led to Institution-led Regional economic 
Integration in East Asia”, paper presented at the Conference on Asian economic Integration, United Nations University, April 22-23, 2002.
Aminian, Nathalie, Fung, K.C., and Ng, Francis, “Integration of Markets vs. Integration by Agreements,” Policy Research working paper no. WPS 4546, World Bank, 2008.
Kawai, Masahiro and Ganeshan Wignaraja, “Regionalism as an Engine of Multilateralism: A Case for a Single East Asian FTA,” Working paper no. 14, Asian Development Bank, 2008. (http://aric.adb.org/pdf/workingpaper/WP14_East_Asian_FTA.pdf)
Chia Siow Yue, “Challenges and Configurations of a Region-wide FTA in East Asia,” Report, Institute of Strategic and International Studies, (August 2007). (_http://www.isis.org.my/files/events/ChiaSiowYue.pdf_)
OECD (2005). “Policy Coherence towards East-Asia: Development Challenges for OECD countries,” Policy Brief No.26, OECD Development Centre. (http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/15/41/34982822.pdf)
Chiang, H. H., 2008, "The 'Flying geese development' model of the IT industry in East Asia." _Journal of the Asia Pacific Economy_ , 13(2), 227-242.
Athukorala, P. C., 2009, "The Rise of China and East Asian Export Performance: Is the Crowding-Out Fear Warranted?"_World Economy_ , 32(2), 234-266.
Gabor, Pula and Tuomas A. Peltonen, 2009, “Has Emerging AsiaDecoupled? An Analysis of Production and Trade Linkages Using the Asian International Input-Output Table,” Working Paper Series No 993, European Central Bank.
Qin, Yaqing, 2013, “East Asian Regionalism: Architecture, Approach and Attributes,” in China and East Asia: After the Wall Street Crisis, pp. 3-22.
Huang D. S., Y. Y. Huang, and C. L. Tsay, 2021, “On the Determinants of Trading Hubs in East and Southeast Asia, _Taiwan Economic Forecast and Policy_ , 51:2, 91–130.
ASEAN+1, +3, +6
Chirathivat, S., 2002, “ASEAN-China Free Trade Area: Background, Implications and 
Future Development”, Journal of Asian Economics, 13, 617-686, also in Wiemer and Cao, 2004, 363-384.
Ye, Jingyi, 2004, “East Asian Economic Cooperation: The “10+1” Mechanism for Moving 
Forward,” in Wiemer and Cao, 2004, 127-152.
Laurenceson James, 2003, “Economic Integration between China and ASEAN”, Discussion Paper no. 329, School of Economics, University of Queensland. 
Cutler, Joanne, Kevin Chow, Carrie Chan, and Unias Li, 2004, “Intra-Regional Trade and
the Role of mainland China”, Economic Research Division, Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
Izraf, Mukhriz and Azman Aziz, 2005, “The Export Competition between China and 
ASEAN-5 Countries in the U.S. and Japan: A survey on Manufacturing sectors”, Paper presented at WTO, CHINA, and the Asian Economies III: Economic Integration and Economic Development, Xi’an Jiaotong University, Xi’an, China, June 25-26, 2005.
Liu, Yunhua, 2004, “Economic Competition and Co-operation between ASEAN-5 and 
China in Trade”, Paper presented at WTO, CHINA, and the Asian Economies II, Free Trade areas and New Economic Relations, Beijing, June 18-19, 2004.
Wong, Kar-yiu, 2003, “China’s WTO Accession and Its Trade with the Southeast Asian 
Economies”, memo, University of Washington. 
Hoa, Tran Van, 2004, “Enlarged ASEAN Free Trade Agreement and Its Impact on 
China’s Regional Trade, Growth and Economic Relations, Paper presented at the 2004 Forum on WTO, China and Asian Economies II, Free Trade areas and New Economic Relations, Beijing, June 18-19, 2004. 
Cabalu, Helen and Alfonso, Cristina, 2007, "Does AFTA Create or Divert Trade?," _Global Ec_ _onomy Journal_ , 7 (4), Article 6.
Jiang, Tingsong and Warwick McKibbin, 2008, “What Does a Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific Mean to China,” Working Paper, Australian National University http://cama.anu.edu.au/Working%20Papers/Papers/2008/Jiang_McKibbin_102008.pdf?bcsi_scan_D4A612CF62FE9576=0&bcsi_scan_filename=Jiang_McKibbin_102008.pdf
Francois, Joseph F. and Wignaraja, Ganeshan, 2008, "Economic Implications of Asian Integration," Global Economy Journal,” 8(3), Article 1. http://www.bepress.com/gej/vol8/iss3
Chuang, Yih-chyi, 2009, “Wean Asia off its Export Addiction,” Taipei Times
http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/editorials/archives/2009/02/23/2003436839
CHINA
Arndt, Sven W., 2004, “Trade Integration and Production Networks in Asia: The Role of 
China”, memo, The Lowe Institute of Political Economy, Claremont McKenna College.
Woo, Wing Thye, 2004, “The Economic Impact of China’s Emergence as a Major 
Trading Nation”, Paper presented at the Forum on WTO, China and Asian Economies II, Free Trade areas and New Economic Relations, Beijing, June 18-19, 2004.
Eichengreen, B., Y. Rhee, et al., 2007, "China and the exports of other Asian countries." _Review of World Economics_ , 143(2), 201-226
Greenaway, D., A. Mahabir, et al., 2008, "Has China displaced other Asian countries' exports?" _China Economic Review,_ 19(2), 152-169. 
Chuang, Yih-chyi, 2009, “The Rise of China and Its Implications to World Economy,” Chinese History and Society/Berliner China-Hefte, 37, 3-21.
Interbrand, 2009, “Made in China 2008: The Challenge for Chinese Brands Going Global.” Retrieved from: http://www.interbrand.com/images/studies/Made_in_China_2008.pdf
Wong, John, 2013, “China in The Post-Financial Crisis East Asia: Towards A New Regional Economic Order,” in China and East Asia: After the Wall Street Crisis, pp. 23-33.
Yang Mu and Chong Siew Keng Catherine, 2013, “China's Investment in Southeast Asia: Trends and Prospects,” in China and East Asia: After the Wall Street Crisis, pp. 175-186.
Chuang Yih-chyi, 2016, “Challenges and Difficulties Confronting China’s “New Normal” Economy,” Prospects and Perspectives 2016, Prospect Foundation, Taipei, Taiwan, pp. 29-32.
TAIWAN
Cai, K. G., 2005, “The China–ASEAN Free Trade Agreement and Taiwan,” Journal of Contemporary China, 14(45), 585–597.
Chen, Tain-Jy, 2003, “Will Taiwan be Marginalized by China?” Asian Economic Paper, 2, 
78-97.
Chen, Tain-Jy, 2005, “The Emergence of Hsinchu Science Park as an IT Cluster,” paper presented at International Conference on the ICT Clusters in East Asia, Kitakyushu, Japan, December 12-14, 2005.
Wang Zhi, 2003, “WTO Accession, the Greater China Free-trade Area, and Economics
Integration across the Taiwan Strait”, China Economic Review, 14, 316-349.
Wu, Chi-jen, A Comparative Study of Economic Integration within Greater China:
Perspectives of Hong Kong and Taiwan, memo.
Chase, Michael S., Kevin L. Pollpeter, and James C. Mulvenon, 2004, _Shanghaied?_
_The Economic and Political Implications of the Flow of Information Technology and_ Investment _across_ the Taiwan Strait, Technical Report-133, RAND National Security Research Institute.
Chuang, Yih-chyi, 2009, “Devaluation Can’t Solve Everything, Taipei Times.
http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/editorials/archives/2009/02/26/2003437078
Chuang, Yih-chyi, 2009, “ECFA: Focus on Issues, not Name,” Taipei Times
http://www.taipeitimes.com/News/editorials/archives/2009/03/11/2003438170
Chuang, Yih-chyi, 2009, “The Economic Relations between Taiwan and Mainland China: Why ECFA?” paper presented at the 26th Taiwan-Europe Conference on The European Union and East Asian Security: East Asia and the European Union in an Emerging Multipolar World, University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland, December 7-8, 2009.
Chuang, Yih-chyi, 2011, “ECFA and Its implications for East Asian Economic Integration,” in C.C. Lin ed. ECFA and East Asia Economic Integration, National Policy Foundation, Taipei, Taiwan, pp.15-27.
Chuang, Yih-chyi, 2011, “Taiwan, A Resource Coordinator and Risk Buffer for Asia,” Prospects and Perspectives 2011, Prospect Foundation, Taipei, Taiwan, pp. 29-33.
Wilson, William T., 2014, “Market Solutions Should Be Central to U.S.'s Taiwan Policy,” Backgrounder No. 2930, August 1, 2014. _http://thf_media.s3.amazonaws.com/2014/pdf/BG2930.pdf_
Chuang, Yih-chyi, 2015, “Cross-Strait Economic Cooperation and Asian Regional Integration: Why joint participation of China and Taiwan is good for them and the region?” In Evan Berman ed. Asian Leadership in Policy and Governance, Public Policy and Governence, Volume 24, UK: Emerald Publishers, pp. 107-127.
FINANCIAL AND MONETARY INTEGRATION
Shan, Zhongdong, Shengping Zhang, Jianhong Qi, “Financial Development in East Asia after the 1997 Crisis”, memo, Institute of the Chinese Economy and WTO studies, Peking University
Lee, Kyung Tae and Deok Ryong Yoon, “A roadmap for East Asian monetary integration,”Working Paper, Korea Institute for International Economic Policy, 2008 (http://www.kiep.go.kr/eng/std_data_view.asp?num=180343&sCate=013002&sSubCate=005&lTp=r&nowPage=1&listCnt=15)
Regional financial cooperation in East Asia: the Chiang Mai Initiative and beyond, Chapter 8 in Bulletin on Asia-Pacific Perspectives 2002/03.
Mundell, Robert, 2003, “Prospects for an Asian Currency Area,” _Journal of Asian Economic_ s, 14, 1-10.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Generative AI may be used for class presentation or term paper with a notice statement to the teacher in advance.  Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Use Moodle for E-learning platform.
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office hour: Thursday, 16:00-17:00
Office: Rm. 271666, South Wing, General Building of Colleges
Phone: 2938-7630; 29393091 ext. 51666
E-mail: ycchuang03@gmail.com
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
None
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
