國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：會計學 
#####  Course Name: Accounting for International Managers
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：933001001 Course No.933001001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_60_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國營碩一、國營碩二 Course Department:International Master of Business Administration/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：徐愛恩、張祐慈 Instructor: STEPHANIE TSUI/CHANG YU-TZU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一FGH Session: mon19-22


##  課程簡介Course Description
**Course Description**
This course consists of two subjects: fundamental financial accounting and managerial accounting. Financial accounting is the process of recording, summarizing and reporting a company's business transactions through financial statements. Managerial accounting is the process of identifying, measuring, analyzing, interpreting, and communicating information to managers for the pursuit of an organization's goals. This course introduces basic principles of accounting theory and practice and emphasizes on how to analyse, process, and apply accounting information in decision-making from the perspective of managers and financial statement users. Topics covered include accrual basis accounting, the accounting cycle, cost accounting, product pricing, capital expenditures, performance evaluation, preparation of financial statements, and financial statement analysis. Students will study the nature of assets, liabilities, owners’ equity, and budgeting while learning to use reported financial information for purposes of making decisions about the company. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 商業管理能力 Students will acquire and apply expertise in business administration.
  * B. 全球具有亞洲特色的企業倫理,社會責任及永續關懷 Students will contribute to business ethics, socail responsibility, and sustainable development globally with Asia Characteristics
  * C. 具創新能力、創業家精神及面對變革的能力 Students can demonstrate innovative ability, entrepreneurship and capabilities to manage change.
  * D. 具全球視野與亞洲觀點之執行能力 Students will be able to analyze problems from global view with an Asia perspective and develop high execution capability.
  * E. 全球領導力 Students will develop global leadership capabilities.


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
**Aims & Objectives**
Accounting is the language of business, facilitating communication of the financial aspects of business. This module provides an introduction to the financial and managerial accounting. The activities and events of a business entity are summarised by the financial accounting process into financial statements to be used by external users such as investors and creditors and internal users such as executives and controllers. Such users would need to understand both the financial accounting process and its outputs in order to make investing or production decisions. Therefore, students will learn how to prepare simple financial statements and how to read, understand and analyze financial data for decision-making. Published financial statements of listed companies will be used as examples. 
**Learning Outcomes**
Upon successful completion of the course, the student will be able to:
  * Understand the basic concepts and principles underlying financial accounting.
  * Comprehend the process that results in published financial statements.
  * Account for common elements of the financial statements.
  * Prepare simple financial statements in an appropriate International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) format
  * Analyse and interpret financial statements using financial analysis techniques.
  * Utilize cost accounting information in an organization's operation.
  * Develop the ability to use various tools and models to support business decisions and to analyze the issues related to the implementing of the decisions.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
See syllabus for details.
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_60%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
See syllabus for details.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Prescribed Textbook:**
Weygandt & Kimmel, Financial Accounting with IFRS 5th Custom Edition. 
ISBN: 978-1-394-19476-6
Garrison, Noreen, & Brewer, Managerial Accounting, 17th Edition, McGraw Hill
ISBN-13: 978-1-260-24778-7
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Students are expected to visit the e-learning course website on Moodle (http://moodle.nccu.edu.tw/) regularly. Announcements, lecture slides, answers for practice questions are posted on the website.
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/07/02 Syllabus_Fall_2025_IMBA.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
**Instructor** : |  Prof. Yu-Tzu Chang |  Prof. Stephanie Tsui   
---|---|---  
**Email** : |  _ytc23@nccu.edu.tw_ |  _stsui@nccu.edu.tw_  
**Office hour** : |  By appointment |  By appointment  
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
**Teaching Assistant** : TBA
**Course Administrative Assistant** : TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
