國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：管理經濟學 
#####  Course Name: Managerial Economics
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：933005001 Course No.933005001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_60_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國營碩一、國營碩二 Course Department:International Master of Business Administration/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：扈企平 Instructor: HU CHI-PING 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三FGH Session: wed19-22


##  課程簡介Course Description
Managerial economics is the application of microeconomic theory and analysis to inform decision-making for business managers. Embodying economics along with business statistics and elementary calculus, managerial economics provides managers with the necessary tools to analyze market information and decide on the optimal production level for profit maximization. 
The purpose of this course, **Managerial Economics** , is to train students to become tomorrow’s effective managers by comprehensively demonstrating how microeconomic theory and analysis are applied to various aspects of running a business. Topics of this course are grouped into four sections:
  * **Section one** provides the concept of the economics of effective management, steps to decision-making, and using marginal analysis for business decisions.
  * **Section two** deals with the behavior of consumers with the concepts of utility analysis, indifference curve, budget constraints, and consumer equilibrium.
  * **Section three** is the core of this course that analyzes the various resource-allocation processes to find the optimal production level that maximizes profits. Major topics include: the production functions that measure the productivity, substitutability, and optimal use of inputs; the cost functions that compute the various costs of production and economies of scale; the market structure (perfect competition, monopoly, monopolistic competition, and oligopoly) and relevant pricing strategies.
  * **Section four** presents analyses of the value of information and the role of government in the marketplace. In a microeconomic setting, the government is involved in the marketplace to address issues arising from market failures. These issues include market power, externalities, public goods, and incomplete information. The government may also be motivated by protectionism to interfere international trade with policies such as quotas and tariffs. 


###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 商業管理能力 Students will acquire and apply expertise in business administration.
  * B. 全球具有亞洲特色的企業倫理,社會責任及永續關懷 Students will contribute to business ethics, socail responsibility, and sustainable development globally with Asia Characteristics
  * C. 具創新能力、創業家精神及面對變革的能力 Students can demonstrate innovative ability, entrepreneurship and capabilities to manage change.
  * D. 具全球視野與亞洲觀點之執行能力 Students will be able to analyze problems from global view with an Asia perspective and develop high execution capability.
  * E. 全球領導力 Students will develop global leadership capabilities.


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
After taking this course, students will be equipped with a discipline that analyzes issues and problems from the cost-benefit perspective based on market information to arrive at solutions. Students will have a solid foundation with the potential to become effective business managers.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Course Week | Flexible Supplemental Instruction Week | Flexible Supplemental Instruction Type  
---|---|---  
16+2 weeks | Week 17 | Capstone self-learning  
Week 18 | Capstone self-learning  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_70%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Approach of the Course**
This course, given its primary purpose of providing comprehensive illustrations on applying the principle of microeconomics to market situations, will be conducted mainly through lectures. However, there should be plenty of opportunities for students to participate in group discussions on case studies and current market issues. Students are encouraged to ask questions and openly discuss issues to help clarify the many concepts and practices relevant to business decision making. 
**Course Grades**
The course grade will be determined by the "individual conduct" during the semester. The individual conduct is defined as:
  * Attending class regularly
  * Arriving to class punctually
  * Participating in class discussion actively
  * Performance by group on mid-term and final exams


Students who maintain a perfect, or near perfect (missing class only once) record of class attendance will be awarded 5 merit points to add to their course grades. A full score of the course grade is 100 points. Students who actively participate in class discussion will receive up to 10 points to improve their course grade. 
There will be two take-home exams, one at mid-term and one at the end of the semester (dates of the exams are to be announced). The exams will consist of essays (analysis of market issues and case studies) and calculations. The exams are scored by group, members of the same group will receive the same score. The exam scores will constitute 90 points of the course grade. 
No grade will be given if a student misses four class meetings during the semester. The class will be curved relative to overall student performance. When the course grades are announced, they are final.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  1. Baye, Michael R., and Jeffery T. Prince, ** _Managerial Economics and Business Strategy_** _, International Student Edition for use outside of the U.S.,_ 10th ed., New York: McGraw-Hill, 2022.
  2. Samuelson, William F., Stephen G. Marks, and Jay Zagorsky, ** _Managerial Economics_** _, 9_ th ed., New York: Wiley & Sons, 2021.
  3. Perloff, Jeffery M., ** _Microeconomics: Theory and Applications with Calculus_** , 4th ed., Boston: Pearson, 2017.


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/07/11 NCCU_Syllabus_Form_Hu_1.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
**Office:** Rm. 261101-1, Visiting scholar’s research office, College of Commerce Building
**Office Hours:** By appointment
**Email:** josephhu@nccu.edu.tw
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
See attachment
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
