國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：企業倫理與永續發展
#####  Course Name: Business Ethics and Sustainable Development
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：933018001 Course No.933018001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_1.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_70_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國營碩一、國營碩二 Course Department:International Master of Business Administration/M/1&2 
  * 授課老師：周玲臺、林月雲、柯玉佳、許永明、羅明琇 Instructor: CHOU LING-TAI LYNETTE/LIN YEH-YUN/KO YU-CHIA/SHIU YUNG-MING/LO MING-SHIOW 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：六CD8 Session: sat12-14&17-18


##  課程簡介Course Description
Over the past two decades, business ethics and sustainable development have become increasingly important and attracted wide attention. This course primarily introduces the ethical and sustainability issues possibly faced by firms and individuals. Students are first equipped with basic concepts and theories relateing to business ethics, corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainable development. Then students will be involved in discussion of four cases and sustainabilty value ranking activity. Students are required to preview cases before attending the class and expected to actively participate in class discussions. For each day, a reflection write-up is required.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 商業管理能力 Students will acquire and apply expertise in business administration.
  * B. 全球具有亞洲特色的企業倫理,社會責任及永續關懷 Students will contribute to business ethics, socail responsibility, and sustainable development globally with Asia Characteristics
  * C. 具創新能力、創業家精神及面對變革的能力 Students can demonstrate innovative ability, entrepreneurship and capabilities to manage change.
  * D. 具全球視野與亞洲觀點之執行能力 Students will be able to analyze problems from global view with an Asia perspective and develop high execution capability.
  * E. 全球領導力 Students will develop global leadership capabilities.


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  * To learn fundamental concepts of business ethics and sustainability development 
  * To cultivate logical reasoning from an ethical standpoint 
  * To discuss the application of business ethics, CSR and sustainability in business decisions


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Day 1: September 13, Saturday**
9:00 – 9:10 |  Preparation |  Section  
---|---|---  
9:10 – 10:40 [90 minutes] |  Fundamentals of business ethics, CSR, ESG and sustainable development (1) (Prof. Yung Ming Shiu) |  A  
10:40 – 11:00 |  Break |   
11:00 – 12:10 [70 minutes] |  Fundamentals of business ethics, CSR, ESG and sustainable development (2) (Prof. Yung Ming Shiu) |  A  
12:10 – 13:40 |  Lunch break |   
13:40 – 14:20 [40 minutes] |  Group discussion for Case #1 (Case No: IVEY 908M79-PDF-ENG) Lee and Li, Attorneys-at-Law and the Embezzlement of NT$3 Billion  |  B  
14:20 – 15:50 [90 minutes] |  Case # 1  (Professor Yung Ming Shiu)  
15:50 – 16:10 |  Break |   
16:10 – 16:50 [40 minutes] |  Group discussion for Case #2 (Case No.: Harvard/INSEAD IN1884-PDF-ENG) Fairphone 3: Commercializing Radical Sustainability |  C  
16:50 – 18:20 [90 minutes] |  Case # 2  (Professor Yu-Chia Ko )  
**Day 2: September 14, Sunday**
9:00 – 9:10 |  Preparation |  Section  
---|---|---  
9:10 – 9:40 [30 minutes] |  Group discussion for Case #3 (HBR Reprint 97307) The parable of the Sadhu |   
9:40 – 11:20 [100 minutes] |  Case # 3  (Professor Ling-Tai Lynette Chou) |  D  
11:20 – 11:40 |  Break |   
11:40 – 12:10 [30 minutes] |  Sustainability and ESG (Professor Carol Lin) |   
12:10 – 13:40 |  Lunch break |   
13:40 – 15:10 [90 minutes] |  Group activity: sustainability value ranking & presentation (Professor Carol Lin) |  E  
15:10 – 15:30 |  Break  |   
15:30 – 16:10 [40 minutes] |  Group discussion for Case #4 (Case no.: IVEY 908M11) Mattel and the Toy Recalls (B) |  F  
16:10 – 17:40 [90 minutes] |  Case # 4  (Professor Sonia Lo)  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_50%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  1. Attendance: 30% (each section, CAA’s record)
  2. Participation: 30% (each section, CAA’s record)
  3. Values Ranking Presentation: 20% (Prof. Carol Lin)
  4. Reflection write-up: 20% (Days 1 and 2, Prof. Shiu)


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Group Discussion Questions:**
**Case #1:** Lee and Li, Attorneys-at-Law and the Embezzlement of NT$3 Billion (Case No: IVEY 908M79-PDF-ENG)
Assignment questions:
  1. Please describe the crisis event in this case. Who are the stakeholders? How and to what extent are they affected by this event?
  2. If you were the Head of the law firm, how would you manage this crisis differently?
  3. If you were the Head of PR of this law firm, how would you announce this negative event? (Role playing: one group represents the law firm and holds a press conference; the others represent news reporters and ask questions in the press conference)
  4. How did the law firm prevent reputation ruin and further promote its reputation through CSR engagement?


**Case #2:** Fairphone 3: Commercializing Radical Sustainability (Harvard/INSEAD: IN1884-PDF-ENG)
Assignment questions:
  1. What is the purpose of Fairphone, the organization?
  2. How successful has it been in realizing that purpose to date?
  3. What are the challenges in making a more sustainable smartphone? What are the relevant metrics? How sustainable is the FP3?
  4. Can sustainable consumption be a potential driver of greater sustainability in the smartphone sector?
  5. What are the critical marketing decisions in developing and launching the FP3?
  6. If you were Eva Gouwens, what might you do differently?


**Case #3:** The parable of the Sadhu (Harvard Business Review Reprint 97307)
Author: Bowen H. McCoy
Assignment questions:
**1**. What happened on the mountain? What was the focal issue? 
**2**. Derived issues regarding ethical dilemmas: 
A) What is an ethical dilemma? When did it occur? What are its characteristics? 
B) Did people always sense the existence of an ethical dilemma when it occurred? 
How would people usually react at the sight for the first time? 
Would they have different reactions afterwards? Were those excuses or reflections? 
C) Who would be responsible for the regretful results? Individuals or the group as a whole? 
D) Should any individual give up his/her opportunity to reach the climax for saving the life of a stranger? 
**3**. Derived issues regarding the core values of an organization: 
A) Do you agree that there are core values in every organization? 
B) How can an organization build and preserve its core values and character? How is this process related to sustainability development/governance? 
C) What is the relationship between an organization's core values and the ethical values of its members? As an individual, do you know what your personal ethical principles are?
D) Can stakeholders’ ethical principles benefit corporate sustainability development/governance?
**Case #4:** Mattel and the Toy Recalls (B) (Case no.: IVEY 908M11)
Assignment questions:
  1.     1. What went wrong with Mattel’s recall strategy?
    2. Who are Mattel’s stakeholders? Who did Mattel cater to in the recall?
    3. What values did Mattel exhibit during the recall? How did they affect Mattel?
    4. What should Mattel do right now and in the future?


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
