國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：英語教學教材教法研究 
#####  Course Name: Studies on English Teaching Methods & Material Evaluation
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：951007001 Course No.951007001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英教碩一、英教碩二、英教碩三、英教碩四 Course Department:M.A.Program in TESOL for In-Service Teachers/M/1&2&3&4 
  * 授課老師：招靜琪 Instructor: CHAO CHIN-CHI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間： Session: 


##  課程簡介Course Description
(This is just a tentative and sketchy course outline. A more thorough syllabus will be presented to all class members on the first day of class.)
This course aims to help all the participants (TESOL graduate students) develop an updated and critical understanding of language teaching theories. These are five main themes:
1. Foundations of Methodology
2. Language Skills
3. Skills for teachers
4. Integrated approaches
5. Focus on the learner
6. Focus on the teacher
We will use two books and supplemented with research papers on related concepts. It is also important for us to spend a substantial amount of time critically thinking about and discussing how these Western theories and concepts can be used to examine local issues. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
1. Theoretical understanding: The students will be able to discuss extensively major theoretical frames in TESOL.
2. Pedagogical understanding: The students will be able to apply major TESOL concepts in chosen contexts. 
3. Research understanding: The students will be able to read and point out critical elements of different lines of research related to TESOL. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
This is just an overview. Topics may not be on the final version of the syllabus.   
Please wait for the first day of the class to get the real syllabus
Week 1. Chapter 1: Introduction 
Week 2. Chapter 2: GTM
Week 3: Chapter 3 Direct method (Transfer, interference, and overgeneration, inductive and deductive reasoning.
Week 4: Chapter 4 ALM 
Week 5: Chapter 5 Silent way. Rote learning versus meaningful learning 
Week 6: Chapter 6 Desuggestopedia and cooperative learning
Week 7: CLL and Roger's humanistic psychology
Week 8: Chapter 8 TPR, Left and right brain
Week 9: Chapter 10: Mid-term exam
Week 10: The Natural approach/ Top-down and bottom-up processing
Week 11: Chapter 9 CLT, Discourse, meaning negotiation
Week 12 and 13: CBI and CALL
Week 14: TBLT
Week 15: Critical thinking
Week 16: Strategies, MI, Styles, and strategies
Week 17: Conclusion
Week 18: Final exam
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_40%_
####  討論 Discussion
_40%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Participation 20%
Mid-term exam: 20%
Projects 30%
Final exam or report: 30%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
(To be confirmed when the semester starts.)
Foundation: Marianne Celce-Murcia, Donna M. Brinton, and Marguerite Ann Snow (Eds.)(2014) Teaching English as a Second or Foreign Language (4th Edit). 
New Concepts: https://www.routledge.com/Contemporary-Foundations-for-Teaching-English-as-an-Additional-Language/Vinogradova-Shin/p/book/9780429398612
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Mediated use to get inspiration. Do not copy and paste whatever is offered to you by AI. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office Hours: By appointment.
Location: Possibly the instructor's office in Jitao building or Rm 703 of Research Building
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Keven is our assistant for this course. 
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
