國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：莎士比亞與英語教學 
#####  Course Name: Shakespeare and Language Teaching
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：951922001 Course No.951922001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：英教碩一、英教碩二、英教碩三、英教碩四 Course Department:M.A.Program in TESOL for In-Service Teachers/M/1&2&3&4 
  * 授課老師：施堂模 Instructor: SELLARI THOMAS-JOHN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間： Session: 


##  課程簡介Course Description
***PLEASE NOTE that this course is not actually being offered during the fall semester of 2021 (110-1). Due to insufficiencies in the course description platform and/or its utilization, as well as the apparent failure of university regulations to reflect the actual needs of the university's various programs, this summer course is being listed for this fall term even though it is clearly not going to be offered at this time. It is a summer course, and registration for it was closed even before the instructor was forced (by the aforementioned regulations) to input this course description into the system. The instructor apologizes for any inconvenience or misunderstanding that this may cause.***
The goals of this course all involve giving working teachers an opportunity to investigate the methods and difficulties of using Shakespeare's works—and, by extension, the works of other major authors—in their English language courses. Specifically, these goals include:
  * familiarizing teachers with relevant literary and historical background to Shakespeare's works
  * familiarizing teachers with resources such as dictionaries, reference works, films and videos, and web sites for future reference
  * gaining detailed knowledge of several of Shakespeare's works that would be of especially interest to maturing students
  * developing the reading and writing skills necessary to classroom flexibility and confidence in dealing with challenging texts
  * identifying and overcoming textual difficulties
  * practicing incorporating some of Shakespeare's works into existing curricula
  * developing classroom activities based on Shakespeare's works


###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
***PLEASE NOTE that this course is not actually being offered during the fall semester of 2021 (110-1). Due to insufficiencies in the course description platform and/or its utilization, as well as the apparent failure of university regulations to reflect the actual needs of the university's various programs, this summer course is being listed for this fall term even though it is clearly not going to be offered at this time. It is a summer course, and registration for it was closed even before the instructor was forced (by the aforementioned regulations) to input this course description into the system. The instructor apologizes for any inconvenience or misunderstanding that this may cause.***
The goals of the course are listed above.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
***PLEASE NOTE that this course is not actually being offered during the fall semester of 2021 (110-1). Due to insufficiencies in the course description platform and/or its utilization, as well as the apparent failure of university regulations to reflect the actual needs of the university's various programs, this summer course is being listed for this fall term even though it is clearly not going to be offered at this time. It is a summer course, and registration for it was closed even before the instructor was forced (by the aforementioned regulations) to input this course description into the system. The instructor apologizes for any inconvenience or misunderstanding that this may cause.***
first meeting: introduction to course; introduction to Shakespeare; Shakespeare’s sonnets; reference materials
second and third meeting: _Romeo and Juliet_ Acts I-II; comedy vs. tragedy; verse vs. prose; reading wholes
fourth and fifth meeting: _Romeo and Juliet_ Acts III-V; reading dialogue; pair work; writing dialogue; themes of race and prejudice
sixth and seventh meeting: _Twelfth Night_ Acts I-II; analyzing Shakespeare’s language; grammar and relations of ideas
eighth and ninth meeting:_Twelfth Night_ Acts III-V; rhetorical tropes and schemes; crafting and developing longer pieces
tenth and eleventh meeting: _Henry IV, Part One_ Acts I-II; public speaking; argumentation and refutation; logic
twelfth and thirteenth meeting: _Henry IV, Part One_ Acts III-V; history plays; definitions of history; reading motivations
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_60%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
***PLEASE NOTE that this course is not actually being offered during the fall semester of 2021 (110-1). Due to insufficiencies in the course description platform and/or its utilization, as well as the apparent failure of university regulations to reflect the actual needs of the university's various programs, this summer course is being listed for this fall term even though it is clearly not going to be offered at this time. It is a summer course, and registration for it was closed even before the instructor was forced (by the aforementioned regulations) to input this course description into the system. The instructor apologizes for any inconvenience or misunderstanding that this may cause.***
Students will be expected to read a selection of Shakespeare's sonnets and excerpts from seven of his plays (specified below). Attendance is mandatory. Grades will be based on the following three writing assignments, which can be completed in any order but must be handed in on the dates specified in the final syllabus (to be handed out in the first class meeting):
  * a creative work based on a model from one of Shakespeare's works covered in class
  * a four- to five-page critical paper on linguistic or literary aspects of one of Shakespeare's works covered in class
  * a class plan that incorporates part of one of Shakespeare's works into a language curriculum


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
***PLEASE NOTE that this course is not actually being offered during the fall semester of 2021 (110-1). Due to insufficiencies in the course description platform and/or its utilization, as well as the apparent failure of university regulations to reflect the actual needs of the university's various programs, this summer course is being listed for this fall term even though it is clearly not going to be offered at this time. It is a summer course, and registration for it was closed even before the instructor was forced (by the aforementioned regulations) to input this course description into the system. The instructor apologizes for any inconvenience or misunderstanding that this may cause.***
Materials will be made available for students by the instructor.
Alternatively, students may choose to use some of the following editions of Shakespeare’s works:
Royal Shakespeare Company, _William Shakespeare: Complete Works_
_The Norton Shakespeare_
Arden, Oxford, or New Cambridge editions of individual plays
Recommended reading: Russ McDonald, _The Bedford Comapnion to Shakespeare: An Introduction with Documents_
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
n/a
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Mondays 12-3, Wednesdays 12-3, and by appointment
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
n/a
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
