國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：永續發展與都市政治
#####  Course Name: Sustainable Development and Urban Politics
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：Z23941001 Course No.Z23941001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_5_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國碩士 Course Department:International College of Innovation/M/0 
  * 授課老師：陳虹穎 Instructor: CHEN HUNG-YING 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16 


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course introduces the contested terrain of “sustainability” against the backdrop of Asia’s complex and rapidly urbanizing environments.
We will approach the topic through four closely connected units. The first unit introduces key planning paradigms and technocratic green solutions, while unpacking how these top-down goals are implemented, negotiated, or resisted in real-world urban settings.
Building on this, the second unit turns to the shifting agendas of urban sustainability—such as compact cities, smart cities, and zero-carbon transitions—and investigates how these globally circulating models are driven by diverse human and non-human actors.
In the third unit, we focus on the rise of metrics and benchmarks in sustainable urban governance. What roles do tools like ESG ratings, IPCC reports, and sustainability standards play? How do these intersect—or collide—with urban realities across different geographies?
The final unit explores emerging forms of urban practice and innovation. We will investigate how new actions, experiments, and imaginaries are reshaping sustainability from the ground up, based on alternative epistemologies and values operating across multiple scales. In addition, the final unit will be a joint effort with the course titled 'Sustainable Urban Futures in East Asia' in the School of Interdisciplinary Science and Innovation at Kyushu University in Japan.
Throughout the course, students will engage with diverse case studies to develop what we call “sustainability literacy”: the critical capacity to distinguish ecologically grounded, socially inclusive urban efforts from superficial greenwashing or market-driven narratives.
本課程聚焦「永續發展」這個無所不包又充滿張力的概念，並聚焦於亞洲快速城市化的脈絡下，重新審視永續論述背後的治理邏輯與權力博弈。
本課程共分為四個緊密相連的單元。**第一單元** 從主流的永續都市規劃範型出發，檢視各類以科技治理與效能導向為主的綠色解方，並探討這些目標在實際推動過程中，如何在制度與現實之間穿梭、協商或產生摩擦。
進入**第二單元** ，我們將轉向全球永續城市的行動藍圖與政策風潮，包括「緊湊型城市」、「智慧城市」與「淨零轉型」等常見名詞。這些治理行動，是由多元的行動者與物質條件所驅動，我們將調查它們如何進行跨地域移植與轉譯。
**第三單元** 聚焦於當前城市治理中，政府、學術單位、市場、商業顧問共同締造的指標化趨勢──從IPCC報告到ESG評比，從各類永續評鑑標準到綠色金融。我們將思考：誰定義了永續？這些量化環境過程，如何處理那些模糊、難以估量的現實？這些制度工具在不同地理與社會脈絡中，又如何產生落差與張力？
最後的**第四單元** 則轉向萌芽中的永續實踐與想像──從新型態的生活風格創造，到跨物種共生的都市計畫，從草根節能系統到替代性的治理模式。這些案例將帶領我們重新思考永續發展的可能性與邊界。此外，第四單元課程將與日本九州大學共創学部「東アジア都市の持続的発展」 課程共同授課。
本課程將透過各地城市的實例、田野觀察與反思練習，培養學生具備「永續素養」：也就是能夠分辨哪些行動真正有助於地球與眾生共存？而哪些僅止於企業漂綠或政策包裝。
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  1. To introduce how urban anthropological, geographical, and planning theories and conceptual tools relating to urban sustainability politics. 
  2. To provide analytical frameworks for understanding contemporary urban sustainability politics.
  3. To encourage students to thinking critically about the political, economic and social processes that form the urban transitions alongside variegated local and global forces.
  4. To encourage students in recognising and appreciating the complexity of urban transformation processes in their lived experience.


On successful completion of this module, students will be able to:
**Subject-specific Knowledge**
  * be aware of diverse understandings of social, historical, political, environmental, and cultural features of contemporary urban sustainability politics, and capable of situating these issues within the broader global process.
  * understand and demonstrate the climate actions in cities across the globe. 
  * identify, assess, and interrogate actors and forces that shape the urban politics of sustainable development.


**Subject-specific Skills**
  * apply Social Studies inquiry processes and skills to ask questions and to develop a preliminary research project; 
  * implementing a preliminary research by collecting data, analysing ideas; and to developing argumentation skills and to communicate findings and reflections.


**Key Transferable Skills**
  * Self-directed learning
  * Transcultural learning
  * Written and verbal communication
  * Analysing and contextualizing urban landscapes 


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Wee k** |  **Topic** |  **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---  
**Section 1. Introducing Urban Sustainability Politics**  
**1** 9/4 |  **Rethinking Sustainable Development** From Brundtland to degrowth |  Class orientation,  In-class sharing   
**Weekly reading** Syllabus Kaul, S., Akbulut, B., Demaria, F.  _et al._ Alternatives to sustainable development: what can we learn from the pluriverse in practice?.  _Sustain Sci_ **17** , 1149–1158 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/s11625-022-01210-2 **Extended Reading** Arturo Escobar (2011). "Sustainability: Design for the pluriverse," Development, Palgrave Macmillan; Society for International Development, vol. 54(2), pages 137-140, June. Zhang, Q. et al. (2016) ‘More than target 6.3: A Systems Approach to Rethinking Sustainable Development Goals in a resource-scarce world’, _Engineering, 2_(4), pp. 481–489. doi:10.1016/j.eng.2016.04.010.   
**2** 9/11 |  **Urban Politics: Who Governs Cities?** Formal vs. informal power structures |  (Pre-class) Weekly Reflective Journal (In-class) Lecture, group discussion   
**Weekly reading** Vanesa Castán Broto & Harriet Bulkeley (2013). “A survey of urban climate change experiments in 100 cities,” _Global Environmental Change 23_(1): 92–102. Anthony Gar-on Yeh, Fulong Wu (1999). “The transformation of the urban planning system in China from a centrally-planned to transitional economy,” Progress in Planning, Volume 51, Issue 3, Pages 167-252.  
**3** 9/18 |  **Horizontal and Vertical Urbanization in Asia** |  (Pre-class) Weekly Reflective Journal (In-class) Lecture, group discussion  
**Weekly reading** Cook, N. T., & Kerr, S.-M. (2023). Assembling high-rise: The uneven agencies of air in suburban densification in the Anthropocene. _Urban Studies_ , _61_(7), 1308-1326. https://doi.org/10.1177/00420980231205026 (Original work published 2024) Circuits of power: Environmental injustice from Bangkok's shopping malls to Laos’ hydropower dams **Extended reading** Hillary Angelo, David Wachsmuth (2014) Urbanizing Urban Political Ecology: A Critique of Methodological Cityism, _International Journal of Urban and Regional Research, 39_(1), 16-27.  
Creighton Connolly (2018) Urban Political Ecology Beyond Methodological Cityism, _International Journal of Urban and Regional Research,_ _43_(1), 63-75.   
**4** 9/25 |  **Informal & Insurgent Urbanisms** **Extracurricular Visit:** Informal settlements by the riverside in the Taipei Metropolitan Area |  (Pre-class) Weekly Reading (In-class) Guided tour, Q&A  
**Weekly reading** Roy, A. (2005). Urban Informality: Toward an Epistemology of Planning.  _Journal of the American Planning Association_ ,  _71_(2), 147–158. https://doi.org/10.1080/01944360508976689 Shrestha, P., & Aranya, R. (2015). Claiming  _Invited_ and  _Invented_ Spaces: Contingencies for Insurgent Planning Practices.  _International Planning Studies_ ,  _20_(4), 424–443. https://doi.org/10.1080/13563475.2015.1028909 **Extended Reading** Juliana Canedo (2025) Co-producing Urban Spaces: Collaborative Methods Towards an Insurgent Urbanism, transcriptVerlag.  
**Section 2. Interrogating Urban Agendas and Paradigmatic Transitions**  
**5** 10/2 |  **Urban & Climate Politics ** Action Agendas and Their Critics |  (Pre-class) Weekly Memo (In-class) Lecture, Guided Reading, Discussion  
**Weekly Readings** Jensen, C. B. (2021). Material Itineraries: Southeast Asian Urban Transformations.  _East Asian Science, Technology and Society: An International Journal_ ,  _15_(2), 124–134. https://doi.org/10.1080/18752160.2021.1917840  
**6** 10/9 |  **Policy Transfer and Mutation**  
Case Study: Urban Energy Transition  |  (Pre-class) Weekly Memo (In-class) Lecture, Guided Reading, Discussion  
**Weekly Readings** Cottineau, C., Batty, M., Benenson, I., Delloye, J., Hatna, E., Pumain, D., Sarkar, S., Tannier, C., & Ubarevičienė, R. (2024). The role of analytical models and their circulation in urban studies and policy. _Urban Studies_ , _61_(12), 2370-2398. https://doi.org/10.1177/00420980241237410 Peck, J. and Theodore, N. (2010) Mobilizing policy: Models, methods, and mutations, _Geoforum_ , _Vol._ _41_ , 169–174. **Extended Reading** Bok, Rachel and Coe, Neil M. (2017) Geographies of policy knowledge: The state and corporate dimensions of contemporary policy mobilities, _Cities, Volume 63_ , pp. 51-57, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cities.2017.01.001. Bok, R. (2019) Urban Mobile Policy in Anthony Orum (ed.) _The Wiley Blackwell Encyclopedia of Urban and Regional Studies_ , John Wiley & Sons Ltd.   
**7** 10/16 |  **Urban Paradigms and the Mutations (i): Zero-Carbon Cities** |  (Pre-class) Weekly Memo (In-class) Lecture, Guided Reading, Discussion  
**Weekly Readings** Namba, M. (2021). Material Itineraries of Electric Tuk-Tuks: The Challenges of Green Urban Development in Laos. _East Asian Science, Technology and Society: An International Journal, 15_(2), 173–191. https://doi.org/10.1080/18752160.2021.1897737 Bulkeley, Harriet (2021) Climate changed urban futures: environmental politics in the anthropocene city, _Environmental Politics, 30_ :1-2, 266-284, DOI: 10.1080/09644016.2021.1880713 **Extended Reading**  
Karen C. Seto, Galina Churkina, Angel Hsu, Meredith Keller, Peter W.G. Newman, Bo Qin, and Anu Ramaswami (2021) Annual Review of Environment and Resources From Low- to Net-Zero Carbon Cities: The Next Global Agenda, _Annual Review of Environment and Resource, Vol. 46_ :377–415.  
**8** 10/23 |  **(Undergrads) On-site Mid-term Exam/**  
**(Postgrads) Online Mid-term Proposal Submission** |   
**9** 10/30 |  **ESG and Its Discontents** |  (Pre-class) Weekly Memo (In-class) Lecture, Guided Reading, Discussion  
**Weekly reading/listening** **Mazzucato, Marriana and Rosie Collington (2023)_The Big Con: How the Consulting Industry Weakens Our Businesses, Infantilizes Our Governments, and Warps Our Economies_ , Penguin Press. (Chapter 9. Climate Consulting)**   
**Knuth, Sarah E. (2023). “Green devaluation: The financialization of environmental governance,”** _Environment and Planning E: Nature and Space_ , _6_(2), 462–483. **Extended resources** Listen: How companies, countries are beginning to put a value on nature, S&P Global  
**10** 11/6 |  **Roles of Environmental Accounting in Urban/ Climate Governance** Carbon Accounting and Carbon Trading |  (Pre-class) Weekly Memo (In-class) Lecture, Guided Reading, Discussion  
Francisco Ascui, Heather Lovell (2012) Carbon accounting and the construction of competence, _Journal of Cleaner Production, Vol.36_ , pp.48-59.  
**11** 11/13 |  **Green Finance, SDGs & Global Metrics** |  (Pre-class) Weekly Memo (In-class) Lecture, Guided Reading, Discussion  
**12** 11/20 |  **Guest Speaker / Field Visit: Green Startups or Urban Peripheries or Urban Repair Movement** |  (Pre-class) Weekly Memo (In-class) Lecture, Guided Reading, Discussion  
**13** 11/27 |  **Rethinking AI & Sustainability Politics**  
Guest Lecturer: Dr. Pen-Yuan HSING (University of Bristol, UK) |  (Pre-class) Weekly Memo (In-class) Lecture, Guided Reading, Discussion  
**Extended Reading** Star, Susan Leigh (2002) Infrastructure and ethnographic practice, _Scandinavian Journal of Information Systems, 14_(2): 107-122   
**14** 12/4 |  **Urban De-growth** |  (Pre-class) Weekly Memo (In-class) Lecture, Group Discussion (with Kyushu U students), Sharing & general discussion  
**15** 12/11 |  **Maintenance, Repair, and Care** |  (Pre-class) Weekly Memo (In-class) Lecture, Group Discussion (with Kyushu U students), Sharing & general discussion  
**Weekly Reading** Marıa Jose Zapata Campos, Patrik Zapata, and Isabel Ordonez (2020) Urban commoning practices in the repair movement: Frontstaging the backstage, _Environment and Planning A, Vol. 52_ , Iss. 6, pp. 1150-1170. Mattern, S. (2018) Maintenance and Care, Place Journal. Available at: https://placesjournal.org/article/maintenance-and-care/ **Extended Reading** Rosa-Aquino, P. (2022). Fix, or Toss? The ‘Right to Repair’ Movement Gains Ground (Published 2020). Retrieved 16 February 2022, from https://www.nytimes.com/2020/10/23/climate/right-to-repair.html  
**16** 12/18 |  **End-of-Term Project Presentation** |  With Kyushu University students participating as commentators and reviewers  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_40%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_10%_
####  其他： Others: Extracurricular Visit 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
※ This course encourages students to use AI tools appropriately for collaborative work in the classroom under the principles of transparency and accountability. Students are expected to provide instructions on the use of AI at the end of their final class assignments or reports, briefly describing how they will use generative AI for topic ideas, sentence refinement, or structural references. However, the use of generative AI tools for writing is prohibited for the Mid-term Exam. The course instructor has the right to withhold marks if the use of AI tools is not labelled.
**_For undergraduates_**
Component |  Description |  Percentage  
---|---|---  
Attendance & Participation |  Active attendance and in-class contributions (more than 3 absences = automatic fail) |  15%  
Weekly Memos |  8 short reading or learning reflections, submitted throughout the semester (best 8 of 10) |  17%  
Guided Reading (Paired Facilitation) |  Students work in pairs to guide weekly readings through framing questions or visuals |  13%  
Midterm Exam |  On-site written exam in English or Chinese; focused on key concepts and applied analysis |  25%  
Final Project |  Individual or group-based; analytical report or creative project + presentation |  30%  
- Peer Review (Final Project) |  Structured peer feedback and collaborative evaluation of final project quality and effort (only applied to group project - 10% within 30%) |   
**_For postgraduates_**
Component | Description | Percentage  
---|---|---  
**Participation & Presence** | Includes attendance, engagement in discussion, and in-class contributions | 15%  
**Guided Reading (Individual)** | Students prepare guided reading handout or slides and explain the background and key argument of the reading. | 15%  
**Weekly Memos** | 10 English memos (500–800 words): summarize readings, assess critically, pose questions, suggest research directions | 40%  
**Final Project** |  | 30%  
| Option A: Final Essay (max. 10 pages) |   
| Option B: Group Project (format open, 2–4 people), 10% from peer evaluation |   
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Students can use AI tools appropriately for collaborative work in the classroom under the principles of transparency and accountability. However, the use of generative AI tools is prohibited in exams. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Arturo Escobar (2011). "Sustainability: Design for the pluriverse," Development, Vol. 54(2): 137-140.
Vanesa Castán Broto & Harriet Bulkeley (2013). “A survey of urban climate change experiments in 100 cities,” Global Environmental Change 23(1): 92–102.
Cook, N. T., & Kerr, S.-M. (2023). Assembling high-rise: The uneven agencies of air in suburban densification in the Anthropocene. Urban Studies, 61(7), 1308-1326. https://doi.org/10.1177/00420980231205026 
Juliana Canedo (2025) Co-producing Urban Spaces: Collaborative Methods Towards an Insurgent Urbanism, transcriptVerlag.
Jensen, C. B. (2021). Material Itineraries: Southeast Asian Urban Transformations. East Asian Science, Technology and Society: An International Journal, 15(2), 124–134. https://doi.org/10.1080/18752160.2021.1917840

```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Every Wednesday & Thursday (by email appointments)
Research Building Room 909
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Chen, Pei Qi <112ZU1007@g.nccu.edu.tw>
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
