國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：海外學習
#####  Course Name: Overseas Learning
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZM1008001 Course No.ZM1008001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_1.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_50_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：全創碩一、全創碩二、全創碩三 Course Department:Global Communication and Innovation Technology/M/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：蔡葵希 Instructor: COOK CHRISTINE LINDA 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一5 Session: mon14-15


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to accommodate three types of overseas experiences for GCIT students: 1) those who obtain their own internships with an overseas company, 2) those who will work with the OIC to go on a study exchange abroad for a semester, attend an intensive course, or attend a summer/winter school, 3) other, such as international volunteering and topical field work or research visits. All of these must consist of one month minimum overseas. In all cases, students will have to report to the supervisor of this course regularly, although there will be no set class time. Evaluation will consist of pass or fail based on the successful completion of one of the three ‘projects’ in the course (referring to the internship, exchange, or fieldwork). The goal of the course is for students to gain first-hand experience with media overseas, and it is subsidized to the amount of 120,000NTD. Students therefore must have an excellent proposal that caters to GCIT’s goals as a program and this proposal must include the name and contact information of a mentor/supervisor who can evaluate your performance while you are overseas. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 媒介實作能力 Media Practice
  * B. 資訊處理能力 Information Processing
  * C. 敘事能力 Narrative
  * D. 媒介素養 Media Literary
  * E. 跨文化傳播能力 Cross-Cultural Communication 
  * F. 創新能力 Innovation


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  1. Students should be able to plan an overseas trip for work and/or academics.
  2. Students should be able to discuss how media companies work in another cultural context.
  3. Students should be able to produce new media content based on overseas experiences.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
The requirements will vary based on which of the options the student pursues. For the internship, the same rules as the domestic internship course apply, only within a one-month span. For the exchange, the duration must be at least one month long. For fieldwork, the student must present a proposal to the supervising party explaining why they are undertaking the fieldwork. For GCIT-organized internships and events, students must abide by the rules provided by GCIT and the organizing party, if other parties are involved. All students must complete a report about their work to be presented at the beginning of the following semester and a supervisor evaluation is also required (see FAQ and attached documentation).
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_0%_
####  講述 Lecture
_0%_
####  討論 Discussion
_10%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_90%_
####  其他： Others: Experience abroad 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
This course will be evaluated on a PASS/FAIL basis. If the student fails to complete one of the four tasks before the end of the Spring semester, then they will receive an “incomplete” for the course. To receive a pass, students must complete an in-depth report on either their internship, exchange, fieldwork, or trip. Students who complete this course will also have to present about their experience abroad alongside domestic internship students.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
N/A
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
  * 2025/06/04 Final Report Blank Sheet.pdf  收合 
  * 2025/06/04 GCIT Mentor Evaluation Form for Overseas Learning Credit _Field Work_.pdf  收合 
  * 2025/06/04 GCIT Short or Long Term Study Evaluation Form for Overseas Learning Credit.pdf  收合 
  * 2025/06/04 GCIT Volunteer Evaluation Form for Overseas Learning Credit.pdf  收合 
  * 2025/06/04 Internship Evaluation Form.pdf  收合 
  * 2025/06/04 Overseas Learning Blank Application Form.pdf  收合 
  * 2025/06/04 Overseas Learning FAQ for Students.pdf  收合 


###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Room 420, Research and Innovation Incubation Center  
  
Office hours are held only by appointment for this course. Please contact the professor directly at christinelcook@outlook.com.
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
