國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：設計思維
#####  Course Name: Design Thinking
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZM1886001 Course No.ZM1886001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_5_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：全創碩一、全創碩二、全創碩三 Course Department:Global Communication and Innovation Technology/M/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：紀俊麟 Instructor: CHI CHUN-LIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二D56 Session: tue13-16 


##  課程簡介Course Description
## **Design Thinking for Innovative Talent and Teams**
  * ### _build your purposeful career and abundant life_


## **INTRODUCTION**
_“It’s very satisfying knowing that I am not alone in this journey, I have a group to share my daily achievements and we can support each other. Either listening to each other’s struggles, accomplishments, or giving feedback, cheering up our teammates. Seems like a life consultation, each class allows us to reflect on our path more and more. Thanks for this amazing journey!!”_
_“Thank you for all the support and guidance throughout the course! I’ve really appreciated the way you’ve made the material engaging and accessible. I’m excited to apply what I’ve learned and see how it all comes together. Looking forward to seeing all of you next week!!”_
_“I’m not quite good at speaking in public or talking to someone new, but in the class everyone is very welcoming and warm. The vibes are great, so I can make new friends and try to talk more without pressure. Thanks a lot for having this insightful class!! “_
### Those are testimonials from NCCU DT class 2024!
**# For introverts:**
About ⅓ of students identified themselves as being introverted before entering the class, and eventually all of them found their own pace and navigated their ways throughout the course journey successfully. In addition, everyone is kind of surprised for being able to make a lot of new friends along the way!
**# For those who have a lot of credits to finish and tons of extra-curricular activities to participate in the upcoming semester:**
_“I really appreciate the interesting courses that you’ve designed, I never thought I would have this much fun in a college classroom. Thank you!!”_
This is a course for you to rest, to have fun and to create something inspiring for yourself, your team and the world. Most students found it relaxing and recharging to attend our classes.
**# For those who doubt their own attendance rate (Am I able to attend most classes of this course?):**
Last year 50% of the students attend almost all the classes (100%, or only missed 1 class due to medical reasons).
Only 5% of the students struggled a lot to meet the course standard (Which is, **absence for 3 times is a red flag. The 4th time of absence will make you fail in this class = > ****no credit** !!).
In the AI era where uncertainties and ambiguities are our daily routine ,this course equips students with the design thinking (DT) principles and innovative problem-solving tools to build effective teams and thrive in their life and career. The course features five weeks of DT booster, five weeks of life and career design and six weeks of teamwork with DT. The main objective of this course is to empower students to put DT learning into practice. Individually, students can apply DT mindsets and tools to design their own future life. At the team level, students walk through a startup process with team members to tackle important challenges and form potential business. Guest speakers from corporate and startup ecosystems will be invited to our classes to deliver insights and tips of problem-solving and opportunity-finding.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 資訊處理能力 Information Processing
  * B. 敘事能力 Narrative
  * C. 媒介素養 Media Literary
  * D. 跨文化傳播能力 Cross-Cultural Communication 
  * E. 創新能力 Innovation
  * F. 媒介實作能力 Media Practice


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
|  Classroom Observation |  Oral Presentation |  Delivery of Final Report  
---|---|---|---  
Students can effectively understand people and context that matter to the real world challenges by applying DT mindsets |  V |  V |   
Students can precisely identify the priority of the core issues by using DT tools |  V |  |  V  
Students can collaboratively communicate with team members and co-create innovative solutions following DT process |  V |  V |   
Students can courageously translate ideas into tangible artifacts/prototypes in their life and career |  V |  |  V  
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Week |  Topic |  Instructional Objectives |  Content and Activities  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction of design thinking (DT) |  Become familiar with the process, mindsets and tools of DT Get engaged in the team-based innovative process with team members |  Lecture: introduction of DT - process, mindsets and tools Hands-on activities: immersion into the collaborative atmosphere of DT Group discussion: reflection on the pros and cons of DT activities in comparison with the past learning experiences  
2 |  “Empathize” in DT |  Gather information and map the correlation to better understand users Reframe problems and identify hidden pain points |  Lecture: the importance of “empathize” Hands-on activities: interview users, extract critical information and form unique perspective  
3 |  “Define” in DT |  Identify several needs from the “empathize” session Finish users’ need statement after prioritization |  Lecture: the art of “define” Hands-on activities: write down several need statements and discuss with peers  
4 |  “Ideate” in DT |  Become familiar with the mindset and process of idea generation in DT Generate ideas and solutions for a certain topic |  Lecture: the magic of “ideate” Hands-on activities: brainstorming activities to generate tons of ideas  
5 |  “Prototype & Test” in DT ; Group formation |  Cultivate the mindset of “Fail fast, cheap and often” Implement the iterative process of prototyping in DT |  Lecture: the implementation of “prototype and test” Hands-on activities: build prototype with team effort and test it with potential users  
6 |  Life and career design- who you are & what you have |  Empathize with yourself and discover who you are and what you have in the past and now |  Lecture: principles of life and career design Hands-on activities: explore self identities and interact with peers to broaden one’s perspective on the relationship among self, others and the world  
7 |  Life and career design- where you go & why |  Define where you want to go and the why behind it |  Lecture: application of life and career design Group activities: design one’s future trajectory of life, with the assistance and company of peers  
8 |  Celebration party for LCD |  Celebrate the devotion of the life and career design process for every student |  Group discussion and reflection: students share what they have experienced and learned during the life and career design process  
9 |  Teamwork with DT- explore and empathize |  Allocate responsibilities and assign roles within teams to maximize team momentum Explore potential topics, issues and users’ needs in a specific field and empathize with the users with DT tools |  Facilitation from teachers: effectively form teams according to students’ backgrounds and interests Hands-on activities: meet team members and explore possible trajectories of the team project  
10 |  Teamwork with DT- prioritize and define |  Prioritize and define a critical need to address in the following sessions for each team Allow back-and-forth discussions and decision makings during the innovative process |  Lecture: strategies and tactics that promote prioritization and definition of users’ real needs.  Hands-on activities: use 2 by 2 tables and post-it to practice prioritization  
11 |  Teamwork with DT- brainstorm and ideate |  Ideate to generate adequate amount of ideas and solutions for team members to discuss Converge to form less than three solutions for team members to build |  Lecture: the mindsets and tools of ideation Hands-on activities: drills that facilitate the generation of ideas Group discussion: discussion on the process of idea generation and the benefit from the huge amount of ideas  
12 |  Teamwork with DT- make a prototype and test it |  Make prototype with available resources and materials Test the artifact with the potential users |  Lecture: the mindsets and tools of prototype / test Hands-on activities: make prototype with team effort Group discussion: present the artifact to other groups, gain insights from feedbacks and reflect the whole process  
13 |  Prototype of team presentation |  Teams present their primitive ideas and plans Students learn and discuss with each other when walking through every projects |  Group presentation Discussion in Q&A sessions  
14 |  Booster session:   
(1) High performance and teamwork- Go beyond limits  
(2) High performance and happiness- enjoyment, satisfaction and purpose |  Communicate and collaborate with team members to reach consensus when facing decision-making points Establish effective strategies and meaningful activities to foster enjoyment, satisfaction and purpose in personal life |  Lectures, hands-on activities & Group discussion for team and talent  
15 |  Group presentation week (I) |  Students are empowered to effectively present their creative works and demonstrate their progress Knowledge, mindsets and tools of DT are utilized to solve a problem / challenge that is pertinent to the real world needs |  Group presentation (I)  
16 |  Group presentation week (II) Deadline of individual final report (via email) |  Students are empowered to effectively present their creative works and demonstrate their progress Knowledge, mindsets and tools of DT are utilized to solve a problem / challenge that is pertinent to the real world needs |  Group presentation (II) Individual final report: Students are capable of integrating their learning experiences and generating meaningful reflections . Formats are flexible and not limited to PDF or PPT files  
Week |  Topic |  Instructional Objectives |  Content and Activities  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_35%_
####  討論 Discussion
_35%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_10%_
####  其他： Others: guest speakers 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Absence for 3 times is a red flag. The 4th time of absence will make you fail in this class = > no credit** !!
Evaluations
• Individual attendance and active participation : 30%
• Team performance : 30%
• Presentations : 20%
• Final report : 20%
  
  

|  Individual attendance and active participation |  Team performance |  Presentations |  Final report  
---|---|---|---|---  
優 A 10～9 |  Attendance above 90% with active participation |  excellent |  outstanding |  comprehensive  
佳 B  8～7 |  Attendance above 85% with decent participation |  decent |  good |  good  
普通 C 6～5 |  Attendance above 60% with acceptable participation |  acceptable |  fair |  fair  
待改進 D 4～3 |  Attendance below 60% |  incoherent |  suboptimal |  suboptimal  
Criterion
• Attendance and active participation: quality and frequency of contribution to class discussions
and intervention. Excellence is marked by active and continuous contributions to class discussions.
• Team performance: team performance is evaluated according to the following two aspects: (1) team atmosphere and interpersonal interaction within the team; (2) team’s contribution to the whole class with regard to the provision of ideas and the participation of group activities
• Presentations: presentation is assessed in the following two aspects: the personal life and career design project and the team project
• Final report: this report is reviewed based on the following two perspectives: (1) how the student has evolved after participating in the class. Every student can define his/her own evolution or accomplishment without the possibility of being judged; (2) to what extent the student understands the mindsets, tools and process of DT. This perspective is better supported by demonstrating the implementation of DT in certain domains of his/her own life.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Auernhammer, J., & Roth, B. (2021). The origin and evolution of Stanford University’s design thinking: From product design to design thinking in innovation management. Journal of Product Innovation Management, 38(6), 623-644.
Brenner, W., Uebernickel, F., & Abrell, T. (2016). Design thinking as mindset, process, and toolbox: Experiences from research and teaching at the University of St. Gallen. Design thinking for innovation: Research and practice, 3-21.
Burnett, B., & Evans, D. (2016). Designing your life: How to build a well-lived, joyful life. Knopf.
Lewrick, M., Link, P., & Leifer, L. (2018). The design thinking playbook: Mindful digital transformation of teams, products, services, businesses and ecosystems. John Wiley & Sons.
Greenberg, S. S. (2021). Creative acts for curious people: How to think, create, and lead in unconventional ways. Ten Speed Press.  
(Chinese Version: 作者： 莎拉‧史坦‧葛林伯格。史丹佛設計學院：把好奇心化為點子的81個創意練習-重現史丹佛設計學院的教學場景｛近百個難忘的課堂案例＋新潮的指定作業｝
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:AI tools can be utilized when teachers allow students to take advantage of them. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
please email me (followinspiration@gmail.com) to set appropriate time slot for you
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
