國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：全球傳播與文化
#####  Course Name: Global Communication and Culture
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZM1906001 Course No.ZM1906001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_40_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：全創碩一、全創碩二、全創碩三 Course Department:Global Communication and Innovation Technology/M/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：蔡葵希 Instructor: COOK CHRISTINE LINDA 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四567 Session: thu14-17


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course is designed to give students an introduction to cross-cultural research and the theories that govern global communication practices. They will have the opportunity to explore their own cultural backgrounds and how that impacts the way they work and communicate with others internationally; they will have the same opportunity to put themselves in others’ shoes to see the world from new perspectives, enabling them to develop sensitive business and marketing strategies, or develop sensitive journalistic stories that will reach their target audience more effectively. The final project will also give them the chance to practice their media skills on a topic related to culture and understanding cultural perspectives on varying issues. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 資訊處理能力 Information Processing
  * B. 跨文化傳播能力 Cross-Cultural Communication 
  * C. 敘事能力 Narrative
  * D. 媒介實作能力 Media Practice
  * E. 媒介素養 Media Literary
  * F. 創新能力 Innovation


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  1. Students should be able to discuss basic theories of cross-cultural psychology and apply them to global communication settings.
  2. Students should be able to take the perspective of people from other cultural backgrounds in order to better communicate with internationals.
  3. Students should be able to communicate respectfully and effectively in writing and in new media contexts to a variety of audiences from different cultural contexts.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Course Schedule & Requirements**  
---  
**Week #** |  **Date** |  **Topic** |  **Course Content** |  **Required Readings*** |  **Notes**  
1 |  02/09 |  Introduction | 
  * Review the syllabus
  * Presentation of individual assignment rubric
  * Presentation of final project rubric
  * Q&A with course instructor

|  1 (Chp.1), 2 (Chp.1) |   
2 |  09/09 |  Modeling Cultures | 
  * Hofstede’s Cultural Dimensions
  * Self-Construal
  * Cultural Logics

|  9, 10, 11 |   
3 |  16/09 |  Cultures in Interaction | 
  * In-group and out-group dynamics
  * Tight and loose cultures
  * High and low context cultures

|  3, 7, 15 |   
4 |  23/09 |  Culture and Identity | 
  * Bronfenbrenner’s Ecological model
  * Moral Foundations Theory
  * Discussing the meshing of all theories covered so far

|  5, 8, 14 |   
5 |  30/09 |  Global Communication and Global Conflict | 
  * Media during times of crises
  * Political issues with global communication

|  2 (Chp.6 & 10) |   
6 |  07/10 |  Propaganda vs. Journalism | 
  * Defining propaganda and journalism
  * Covering famous cases of media propaganda
  * Discussing the impact of politics on media

|  2 (Chp.9), 16 |   
7 |  14/10 |  Globalization | 
  * Discussing what globalization is as a phenomenon
  * Connecting globalization back to existing concepts of culture and media

|  1 (Chp.3 & 11) |  Individual assignment due by email by 11:59pm.  
8 |  21/10 |  “Woke” and Cancel Culture – Online Communication in Global New Media | 
  * What is “intersectionality”?
  * Research on cancel culture and “wokeness”
  * Discussion of applications and risks to media

|  1 (Chp.5), 4 |   
9 |  28/10 |  The Branding and Exporting of Cultural Products | 
  * What is “soft power”?
  * Successful cultural export case studies:
    * Anime/otaku in Japan
    * Hallyu Wave in Korea
  * 04/Discussion of applications to Taiwan

|  1 (Chp.12), 6, 12 |  Make sure you have your project topic and group approved by Dr. Cook by the end of this class.  
10 |  04/11 |  Issues of Racism and Prejudice in Media | 
  * Examples of prejudice and racism in traditional media
  * Avoiding stereotypes in content creation
  * Designing uplifting content for minority groups

|  1 (Chp.10 & 13)  |   
11 |  11/11 |  Translation and Multi-lingual Media | 
  * Issues of translation in media
  * Coordinating cross-cultural fandoms

Importance of multi-lingual media in global societies |  1 (Chp.6), 2 (Chp.11) |   
12 |  18/11 |  Guest Lecture : Dr. Shane Matthews International Workplace Communication |  Dr. Matthews will be talking about the internationalization of workplaces, how business communication happens in international businesses, and how digital technologies impact these things. |  1 (Chp.9), 13 |   
13 |  25/11 |  Guest Lecture: Dr. Elena Block |  Dr. Block will be sharing her experiences in international politics and media with the class, emphasizing her time in Venezuela’s political and media scene. |  N/A |   
14 |  02/12 |  Final project presentations |  Groups will have the opportunity to present their final projects to the class and receive feedback. |  N/A |  Make sure to bring multiple copies of your project – USB, email, and cloud, if not physical!  
15 |  09/12 |  Class Discussion and Exam Revision |  In this final class before the exam, students will have the chance to revise all materials together, pose any remaining questions they have to the course instructor, and complete a practice exam graded on-site. |  N/A |  Make sure to bring something to write or type with!  
16 |  16/12 |  Final exam |  The exam will cover all course materials from 12/09 to 12/12. |  N/A |  Make sure to bring something to write or type with!  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_60%_
####  講述 Lecture
_20%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  * Individual assignment 30%
    * Students will be completing an individual 1-5 page assignment assessing their own cultural backgrounds and biases and how these could influence their career paths in media or business.
    * A specific rubric will be presented in class, but generally, the following will be evaluated:
      * Respecting page limits [10%]
      * Self-assessment based the following theories covered in class: [40%]
        * Hofstede’s cultural dimensions [10%]
        * Cultural logics [10%]
        * Self-construal [10%]
        * Bronfenbrenner’s Ecological Theory [10%]
      * Inclusion of scores on validated measures [5%]
      * Discussion of biases based on existing theories and introspection [20%]
      * Discussion of how biases may affect choices in specified career path [20%]
      * English quality [5%]
    * Late assignments will be docked 5% per 24-hour period that they are late, to a maximum of 20% of the total project grade lost. Projects more than a week late will not be graded and will receive a 0.
  * Final project 35%
    * The final project will consist of a creative piece of journalism on a topic relevant to the international community at NCCU. **Both the format and the topic discussed must be pre-approved by Dr. Cook by the end of class on October 28, 2025**.
      * Examples of formats:
        * Podcast
        * YouTube-style video
        * Recorded livestream
        * Traditional pre-recorded broadcast
      * Examples of possible topics:
        * The shifting political alliances of Taiwan
        * Living in a Face Culture as a Dignity or Honour Culture Member
        * The Impact of Colonialism Around the World
    * Students will be given the option of completing this project either as a solo piece, in pairs, or in groups of 3 students.
      * Length of project for solo piece: 10 minutes
      * Length of project for pair of students: 15 minutes
      * Length of project for 3-person group: 20 minutes
    * The full rubric will be presented and discussed fully in our first class. However, this is the basic breakdown of grading:
      * Demonstrated a clear understanding of the topic, and able to communicate it effectively to a non-academic audience [35%]
      * Respecting time limits [5%]
      * Included at least two interviews [10%]
      * Clear and understandable English – as it is spoken English, and targeted at a non-academic audience, written grammar and word choice will not be graded, but it must be easily understood by the instructor [15%]
      * Included information about … [30%]
        * Why the chosen topic is important for new media professionals to understand [10%]
        * What current research has to say about the chosen topic [10%]
        * Further resources an average person could use to find out more about the chosen topic [10%]
      * Creativity/Originality [5%]
    * Late projects will be docked 5% per 24-hour period that they are late, to a maximum of 20% of the total project grade lost. Projects more than a week late will not be graded and will receive a 0.
  * Final exam 35%
    * Short- and long-answer questions
    * Subject matter will include everything covered in class.
    * Content from in-class discussions WILL be included.


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
  1. Sorrells, K., & Sekimoto, S. (2015). _Globalizing Intercultural Communication_. SAGE Publications, Inc.
  2. Hamelink, C. J._Global Communication_. SAGE Publications, Inc.
  3. Cook, C. L., Schaafsma, J., Antheunis, M. L., Shahid, S., Lin, J.- H. T., & Nijtmans, H. W. (2021). Trolls without borders: A cross-cultural examination of victim reactions to verbal and silent aggression online. _Frontiers in Psychology_ , _12_ , 549955. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2021.549955
  4. _Cook, C. L., Patel, A., Guisihan, M., & Wohn, D. Y. (2021). Whose agenda is it anyway: An exploration of cancel culture and political affiliation in the United States. _SN Social Sciences_ , _1_ , 237. _https://doi.org/10.1007/s43545-021-00241-3
  5. Evans, O. G. (2023). Bronfenbrenner’s ecological systems theory. _Simply Psychology_. Retrieved from https://www.simplypsychology.org/bronfenbrenner.html
  6. Ganghariya, G., & Kanozia, R. (2020). Proliferation of Hallyu wave and Korean popular culture across the world: A systematic literature review from 2000-2019. _Journal of Content, Community & Communication_, _11_ , 177-207. https://doi.org/10.31620/JCCC.06.20/14
  7. Gelfand, M. J., Raver, J. L., Nishii, L., Leslie, L. M., Lun, J., Lim, B. C., … & Yamaguchi, S. (2011). Differences between tight and loose cultures: A 33-nation study. _Science_ , _332_ , 1100-1104. https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1197754
  8. Graham, J., Haidt, J., Koleva, S., Motyl, M., Iyer, R., Wojcik, S. P., & Ditto, P. H. (2013). Moral foundations theory: The pragmatic validity of moral pluralism. In _Advances in Experimental Social Psychology, Vol. 47_ (pp. 55-130).
  9. Hofstede, G. (2011). Dimensionalizing cultures: The Hofstede model in context. _Online Readings in Psychology and Culture_ , _2_(1). https://doi.org/10.9707/2307-0919.1014
  10. Leung, A. K.- Y., & Cohen, D. (2011). Within- and between-culture variation: Individual differences and cultural logics of honor, face, and dignity cultures. _Journal of Personality and Social Psychology_ , _100_(3), 507-526. http://doi.org/10.1037/a0022151
  11. Markus, H. R., & Kitayama, S. (1991). Culture and the self: Implications for cognition, emotion, and motivation. _Psychological Review_ , _98_(2), 224-253. https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-295X.98.2.224
  12. Norris, M. J. (2010). Exploring Japanese popular culture as a soft power resource. _Inquiries: Social Sciences, Arts, & Humanities_, _2_(5). Retrieved from http://www.inquiriesjournal.com/articles/253/exploring-japanese-popular-culture-as-a-soft-power-resource
  13. Peng, A. C., & Tjosvold, D. (2011). Social face concerns and conflict avoidance of Chinese employees with their Western or Chinese managers. _Human Relations_ , _64_(8), 1031-1050. https://doi.org/10.1177/0018726711400927
  14. Postmes, T., Spears, R., & Lea, M. (1998). Breaching or building social boundaries? SIDE-effects of computer-mediated communication. _Communication Research_ , _25_(6), 689-715. https://doi.org/10.1177/009365098025006006
  15. Würtz, E. (2006). Intercultural communication on web sites: A cross-cultural analysis of web sites from high-context cultures and low-context cultures. _Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication_ , _11_ , 274-299. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1083-6101.2006.00013.x
  16. _Rawat, R. K. (2017). Propaganda and journalism._Amity Journal of Media & Communications Studies_, _7_(2), 77. Retrieved from _https://openurl.ebsco.com/EPDB%3Agcd%3A10%3A22001002/detailv2?sid=ebsco%3Aplink%3Ascholar&id=ebsco%3Agcd%3A141621909&crl=c


####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:AI may only be used for proofreading purposes in this class. If a student wishes to use AI for any other purposes, it must be explicitly discussed with the professor beforehand. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
1:00pm to 3:00pm on Fridays, Room 420, Research and Innovation Incubation Center (RIIC)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
