國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：研究方法
#####  Course Name: Research Method
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZM1908001 Course No.ZM1908001
#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：全創碩一、全創碩二、全創碩三 Course Department:Global Communication and Innovation Technology/M/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：蔡葵希 Instructor: COOK CHRISTINE LINDA 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12
##  課程簡介Course Description
This is a mandatory course for IMICS students and an optional course for GCIT students. The goal of the course is to both introduce students to research methodologies within the broad field of Communication Science and give them hands-on experience analyzing data obtained from these varied study types. Students will learn about qualitative (i.e., interviews, focus groups, content analyses) and quantitative (e.g., surveys, experiments) research methodologies, their strengths and weaknesses, and how to consider both methodology and theory when engaging in study design.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 媒介實作能力 Media Practice
  * B. 資訊處理能力 Information Processing
  * C. 敘事能力 Narrative
  * D. 媒介素養 Media Literary
  * E. 跨文化傳播能力 Cross-Cultural Communication 
  * F. 創新能力 Innovation
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  1. Students will be able to design and execute a qualitative research design.
  2. Students will be able to design and execute a quantitative research design.
  3. Students will be able to present study design ideas effectively to grant-givers and reviewers.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
週次 |  課程主題 |  課程內容與指定閱讀 |  教學活動與作業  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction | 
  * Introduction to professor
  * Review syllabus
Readings: N/A |  N/A  
2 |  Basics of Study Design | 
  * Hypotheses vs. Research Questions
  * Conceptual Frameworks
  * Introduction to formatting and graphical design for papers
Readings: 1 (Chapters 2 and 7) |  Lecture  
3 |  Interview Studies – Theory | 
  * Goals and challenges of interview studies
  * Designing an interview protocol
  * Types of analyses (grounded theory, thematic analyses …)
Readings: 1 (Chapter 9) |  Lecture  
4 |  Interview Studies - Practical |  We will be executing the interview study we designed in the last class and analyzing our data. Readings: N/A |  In-class activity – bring laptop and phone!  
5 |  Focus Group Studies – Theory | 
  * Goals and challenges of simultaneous multi-participant studies
  * Designing a focus-group protocol
  * Ethics of qualitative work
Readings: 1 (Chapters 1 & 10) |  Lecture  
6 |  Focus Group Studies – Practical |  We will be executing the focus-group study we designed in the last class and analyzing our data. Readings: N/A |  In-class activity – bring laptop and phone!  
7 |  Content Analyses | 
  * Goals and challenges of content analyses
  * Types of content analyses (manual vs. automatic)
  * Reviewing content analysis literature together
Readings: 1 (Chapter 11), 2, 3, 4 |  Lecture + In-Class Activity  
8 |  Introduction to R | 
  * Learning basic R programming language
  * Uploading and editing data
  * Performing basic descriptive statistics
Readings: Course Link 1 |  Lecture + In-class Practice  
9 |  Survey Design | 
  * Goals and challenges of survey work
  * Finding existing scales and designing new questions
  * Translation procedures for surveys
Readings: 1 (Chapter 13) |  Lecture Qualitative Assignment Due by 11:59pm  
10 |  Survey Analysis |  We are going to fill out the survey we designed last week and then perform the analyses as a class. Readings: N/A |  In-class activity – bring laptop and phone!  
11 |  Experimental Design | 
  * Goals and challenges of experimental work
  * Key elements of experimental design (controls, manipulations, checks)
  * Ethics of quantitative work
Readings: 1 (Chapter 16) |  Lecture  
12 |  Experimental Practical |  We are going to complete the experiment we designed last week and then perform the analyses as a class. Readings: N/A |  In-class activity – bring laptop and phone!  
13 |  Mixed Method Research Design | 
  * Goals and challenges of mixed method work
  * How to combine qualitative and quantitative methods + common combinations
  * Reviewing mixed method literature together
Readings: 1 (Chapter 17), 5, 6, 7 |  Lecture  
14 |  Grant-Writing and Pitching | 
  * Key elements of grant-writing
  * Design of a research pitch
  * Practice time for pitching with peers
Readings: Course Link 2 |  In-class activity – bring laptop and phone!  
15 |  Final Presentations (Part 1) |  Students will give their final “grant pitch” to the class. |  Quantitative Assignment Due by 11:59pm  
16 |  Final Presentations (Part 2) |  Remaining students will give their final “grant pitch” to the class. |   
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.