國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：新媒體與資訊科技
#####  Course Name: New Media and Information Technology
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZM1947001 Course No.ZM1947001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：全創碩一、全創碩二、全創碩三 Course Department:Global Communication and Innovation Technology/M/1&2&3 
  * 授課老師：張君豪 Instructor: Chang Chun-Hao 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四234 Session: thu09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course explores the intersection of new media and technology, focusing on their impact on society, culture, communication, and various industries. Through theoretical frameworks, case studies, hands-on projects, and discussions, students will examine the evolution of new media and technology and critically analyze their implications in today's digital landscape.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDEF雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 資訊處理能力 Information Processing
  * B. 跨文化傳播能力 Cross-Cultural Communication 
  * C. 敘事能力 Narrative
  * D. 媒介實作能力 Media Practice
  * E. 媒介素養 Media Literary
  * F. 創新能力 Innovation


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
  * Critically analyze the evolution of new media technologies and their impact on society, culture, and communication.
  * Explore theoretical frameworks and conceptual paradigms relevant to the study of new media technology.
  * Develop advanced technical skills in utilizing new media tools and platforms for creative expression, communication, and storytelling.
  * Investigate emerging trends and innovations in new media technology and their potential applications across various industries.
  * Synthesize theoretical knowledge and practical skills to conceptualize and execute innovative projects utilizing new media technologies.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Topic** |  **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Orientation |  Introduction to new media technology |  Lecture/Discussion  
2 |  Digital Media and Communication  |  Literature review & Case Study Assigned reading: [2-1] |  Lecture/Discussion  
3 |  Social Impact of New Media |  Impact of new media on social engagement  
Assigned readings: [3-1][3-2][3-3] |  Lecture/Discussion/Debate  
4 |  Communication in the Digital Age |  Digital storytelling and narratives Assigned readings: [4-1][4-2] |  Lecture/Discussion  
5 |  Avatars and identity |  Digital identities and Virtual Worlds Assigned readings: [5-1] [5-2] |  Lecture/Discussion/ Hands-on Design tasks  
6 |  Podcast and its applications |  Podcast and relevant research issues Assigned readings: [6-1] [6-2] |  Lecture/Discussion  
7 |  Online Communities |  Sense of belongs and CSCL Assigned readings: [7-1] [7-2][7-3] |  Lecture/Discussion  
8 |  Case Study (1) |  Siggraph & MIT media lab selected case studies [8-1] [8-2] |  Lecture/ Group-led discussion  
9 |  Invited Talk |  Generative AI and its applications |  Lecture/Discussion  
10 |  Case Study (2) |  Siggraph & MIT media lab selected case studies Assigned readings:   
[10-1] [10-2]  
|  Lecture/ Group-led discussion  
11 |  Video Games(1) |  Video game design mechanism and design tools  
Assigned readings:  
[11-1] [11-2] |  Lecture/Discussion/ Hands-on Design  
12 |  Video Games(2) |  Gamification strategies and engagement   
Assigned readings: [12-1] [12-2] [12-3] |  Lecture/Discussion/ Hands-on Design  
13 |  Digital curation |  Online curation and its impact Assigned readings [13-1] [13-2] |  Lecture/Discussion  
14 |  Cybersecurity and Privacy |  Ethical considerations in digital media production [14-1] |  Lecture/Discussion  
15 |  Final Presentation(1) |  Group A (1-3) |  Group-based Project Presentation  
16 |  Final Presentation(2) |  Group B (4-6) |  Group-based Project Presentation  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_20%_
####  講述 Lecture
_25%_
####  討論 Discussion
_20%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_25%_
####  其他： Others: 文獻導讀 
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  * Weekly Participation (10%)
  * Class engagement (15%)
  * Case study report (25%)
  * Group presentation (25%)
  * Final report (25%)


##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
**Weekly Assigned Readings:**  
_**(All readings will be downloadable through the online learning portal)**_
[2-1] Yujie, Z., Yasin, M. A. I., Alsagoff, S. A. B. S., & Hoon, A. L. (2022). The mediating role of new media engagement in this digital age. _Frontiers in Public Health_ , 10, 879530.
[3-1] Feng, Y. (2023). Media ethics in the digital world: Emerging technology concerns and COVID-19 lessons. _Journal of Media Ethics_ , 38(1), 60–63.​
[3-2] **Zhang, J. (2023).** _The Impact of New Media on Communication and Engagement in the Digital Age_. Communications in Humanities Research, 21. https://doi.org/10.54254/2753-7064/21/20231470
[3-3] Frontiers Research Topic (2023). The Role of New Media in Social Interactions: Implications for Mental Health and Well-being. Frontiers in Psychology.
[4-1] Harahap, T. R., Nasution, B., Nasution, F., & Harahap, A. N. (2023). Digital Narratives: The Evolution of Storytelling Techniques in the Age of Social Media. International Journal of Educational Research Excellence, 3(2). https://doi.org/10.55299/ijere.v3i2.1004
[4-2] West, C. H., Rieger, K. L., Kenny, A., Chooniedass, R., Mitchell, K. M., Klippenstein, A. W., Zaborniak, A.-R., Demczuk, L., & Scott, S. D. (2022). Digital Storytelling as a Method in Health Research: A Systematic Review. Qualitative Health Research, 32(13), 1975–1990. https://doi.org/10.1177/16094069221111118
[5-1] Davis, D. Z., & Chansiri, K. (2019). Digital identities – overcoming visual bias through virtual embodiment. Information, Communication & Society, 22(4), 491–505.
[5-2] Triberti, S., & Durosini, I. (2023). What Is the Psychological Role of the Virtual Self in Online Worlds? A Scoping Review. Multimodal Technologies and Interaction, 7(12), 109.
[6-1] Rehman, N., Edkins, V., & Ogrinc, N. (2024). Using podcasts to bridge the gap between science communication and specialized scientific fields: A case study of mass spectrometry. Frontiers in Communications, 9, 1384389.
[6-2] Kelly, J. M., Perseghin, A., Dow, A. W., Trivedi, S. P., Rodman, A., & Berk, J. (2022). Learning through listening: A scoping review of podcast use in medical education. Academic Medicine, 97(7), 1079–1085.
[7-1] Yilmaz, R. M., & Keser, H. (2022). Student‑teachers’ sense of belonging in collaborative online learning. Education and Information Technologies, 27, 4501–4522.
[7-2] Jeong, H., & Hmelo‑Silver, C. E. (2021). CSCL affordances for building community and social presence. In Computer‑Supported Collaborative Learning: An Overview. ScienceDirect Topics.
[7-3] ResearchGate Study (2021). CSCL and social creativity: A case study of fashion design. Research in Social Creativity, 7(1), 23–40.
[8-1] Hsieh, A., & National Taipei University of Technology. (2024). Metapunch X: Haptic esports and exertion interaction in XR. ACM SIGGRAPH 2024 Conference Proceedings. https://doi.org/10.1145/3641521.3664403
[8-2] Judith Donath – Sociable Media Group: https://smg.media.mit.edu/people/judith/
[10-1] Johnson, J. (2025). Bridging nature and tech with interactive media: An assignment overview. ACM SIGGRAPH Blog. https://blog.siggraph.org/2025/02/bridging-nature-and-tech-with-interactive-media.html
[10-2] Lin, Y., Gao, Z., Du, H., Niyato, D., Kang, J., Jamalipour, A., & Shen, X. S. (2023). A unified framework for integrating semantic communication and AI-generated content in the metaverse. _arXiv_.
[11-1] Subhash, S., & Cudney, E. A. (2018). Gamified learning in higher education: A systematic review of the literature. Computers in Human Behavior, 87, 192–206. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2018.05.028
[11-2] **Nagle, F., Wolf, M., & York, J. (2018).**Digital game elements, user experience and learning: A conceptual framework. _Education and Information Technologies_ , 23(3), 1051–1064. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10639-018-9730-6
**[12-1] Alloza, S., Escribano, F., Delgado, S., Corneanu, C., & Escalera, S. (2017).**XBadges: Identifying and training soft skills with commercial video games. _arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.00863_
**[12-2]** **Gee, J. P. (2016).**_Rivista di Estetica, 63_ , 149–160. https://doi.org/10.4000/estetica.1312
**[12-3]** **Gee, J. P. (2006). Why game studies now? Video games: A new art form. Games and Culture, 1(1), 58–61. https://doi.org/10.1177/1555412005281788**
**[13-1]Becker, C., Maemura, E., & Moles, N. (2020).**The Design and Use of Assessment Frameworks in Digital Curation. _Journal of the Association for Information Science and Technology, 71_(1), 55–68. https://doi.org/10.1002/asi.24209
[13-2] O'Carroll, A., & MacLoughlin, D. (2018). Digital curation on a small island: A study of professional education in Ireland. _Digital Library Perspectives, 34_(1), 2–13. https://doi.org/10.1080/23257962.2018.1425135
[14-1] White, J. (2023). The ethics of media production and cultural representation. Frontiers of Creative Media Industries and Cultural Studies, 5(1), 37.
[14-2] Kia‑Keating, M., Santacrose, D., & Liu, S. (2018). Photography and social media use in community-based participatory research with youth: Ethical considerations. American Journal of Community Psychology, 60(3–4), 375–384.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
否  No
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Mondays, from 14:00-15:00 (by appointment please)
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
