國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：科技與當代社會
#####  Course Name: Technoscience and Contemporary Society
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1037001 Course No.ZU1037001
#### 修別：群
Type of Credit: Partially Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學二 Course Department:Global Studies/B/2 
  * 授課老師：楊智元 Instructor: YANG CHIH-YUAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：三D56 Session: wed13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
# Academic Year 2025, Fall Semester
# Technoscience and Contemporary Society
Instructor: Dr. Chihyuan Yang, ICI, NCCU
### Course Orientation
This course introduces students to the sociological study of technoscience and society. You will explore and analyze what it means to live in a contemporary technological society. A major goal will be to answer several questions: (1) What are the social, structural, and cultural influences on our behavior, attitudes, and technological change? (2) What are the sources, dynamics, and consequences of social inequality and of how we are organized? and (3) What are the implications of materials and technology for social change? We will then discuss fundamental social processes and concepts—culture, organization and management, social identity, and social interaction.
In the later part of the semester, you will study how technology and society have been intertwined. While technology has always been an intricate part of any society, in the second half of the 20th-century technological change became a defining characteristic of the way societal structures, and technological politics are constituted and organized. In this part, you will investigate and unravel this distinctive condition. You will study different areas where questions about technology’s role in society are central: economy, transportation, and corporations. In this course, you will learn that technological development is not just about technology.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
### Course Aims
  * You will examine and challenge your own experiences, observations, and assumptions about society with sociological reflections.
  * You will develop a more sophisticated understanding of your social worlds and your identities.
  * You will learn to recognize and apply analytical perspectives to analyze the entanglement of technology, media, and politics in our contemporary society.
  * You will be able to make a reasoned contribution to academic and societal debates on the role of technology in society.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
### Week-by-week Syllabus and Readings
  * Week 1 (Sep 3): Course Reflection
    * Instructor attending the 4S Conference
  * Week 2 (Sep 10): Course Orientation
    * Course Introduction
  * Week 3 (Sep 17): Sociotechnical Imagination
    * A brief introduction followed by a viewing of the film: _Railways: The Making of a Nation – Time_ by BBC Liz McIvor.
    * Before the railways, Britan was divided and local time was proudly treasured. Clocks in the west of the country were several minutes behind those set in the east. The railways wanted the country to step to a new beat in a world of precise schedules and timetables that recognised Greenwich Mean Time.
  * Week 4 (Sep 24): Technoscience and Systematic Failure
    * A brief introduction followed by a viewing of the film: _Brakeless_ , directed by Kyoko Miyake, and then a group discussion.
    * “Brakeless” directed by Kyoko Miyake, and then grouping and discussion. What led a Japanese commuter train to speed dangerously, causing a deadly crash? Was the society’s pursuit of efficiency to blame?
  * Week 5 (Oct 1): Culture and Management
    * Required Reading:
      * Edensor, Tim (2002) ‘Popular rituals: sport and carnival’.
      * Ray, C. A. (1986). Corporate Culture: The Last Frontier of Control.
  * Week 6 (Oct 8): Identity, Groups and Organizations (Max Weber)
    * Required Reading:
      * Weber Rationalization and Modern Society (2015).
  * Week 7 (Oct 15): Social Control, Management and Surveillance (Émile Durkheim)
    * Required Reading:
      * Orlikowski. (2007). Socio-material Practices: Exploring Technology at Work. Organization Studies, 28(9), 1435–1448.
  * Week 8 (Oct 22): Modern Institution and Disciplinary Power (Michel Foucault)
    * Required Reading:
      * Taylor, C. (2011) ‘Biopower’ in _Michel Foucault: Key Concepts_.
  * Week 9 (Oct 29): Midterm-catch up week
    * Mid-semester review and catch-up.
  * Week 10 (Nov 5): Cultural Capital and Stratification (Karl Marx)
    * Required Reading:
      * Lawler, Steph (2014) The Hidden Privileges of Identity: On Being Middle Class.
  * Week 11 (Nov 12): Social Interaction and Cognitive Psychology
    * Required Reading:
      * Miller, D. (2012) _Consumption and its consequences_.
  * Week 12 (Nov 19): Race, Ethnicity and Performativity
    * Required Reading:
      * Rattansi, Ali (2007) ‘New racisms’, in _Racism. A Very Short Introduction_.
  * Week 13 (Nov 26): Technological Determinism
    * An introduction followed by a viewing of the documentary: _The Making of a Nation: Railway Mania_ by BBC Liz McIvor.
    * The 1840s Railway Mania - a speculative bubble that peaked in 1846 with 263 new railway companies approved by Parliament Railway Mania. While many middle-class investors lost everything when the bubble collapsed Railway Mania, it ultimately created Britain's modern railway infrastructure and modern stock market.
    * Required Reading:
      * Wajcman, J. (2002). Addressing Technological Change: The Challenge to Social Theory.
  * Week 14 (Dec 3): Technology and Politics
    * An introduction followed by a viewing of the documentary: _Who Killed the Electric Car?_ and a discussion session.
    * Required Reading:
      * Winner, Langdon. (1980). “Do Artifacts Have Politics?”.
  * Week 15 (Dec 10): Final-term Catching up Week
    * Preparation week.
  * Week 16 (Dec 17): Final Exam Week
    * Final examination.
####  其他： Others:
### Assessment Arrangements
  * (30%) Group presentation, critical reading, and summarizing
    * Summarize readings in PowerPoint slides for the class. Each presentation should be 25 minutes , including a detailed summary of the main arguments, post-reading questions, and initial responses.
  * (20%) 8 Weekly Reviews
    * Notes and reflections on the lecture contents.
  * (50%) Final Exam
    * Covers all core concepts of the semester. Question types include multiple-choice and short-answer questions.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.