國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：統計學（一）
#####  Course Name: Statistics(Ⅰ)
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1014001 Course No.ZU1014001


#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_60_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學一 Course Department:Global Studies/B/1 
  * 授課老師：關秉寅 Instructor: KUAN PING-YIN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二567 Session: tue14-17


##  課程簡介Course Description
This course introduces undergraduates to the fundamental terminology, concepts, interpretation, and communication of the descriptive and inferential statistics most commonly encountered in scientific research. Learning statistics is like learning an everyday language that is widely used in the scientific community. For example, many researchers use surveys, public opinion polls, censuses, and other quantitative data sources to document, describe, and explain a wide range of social phenomena. To join the conversations being conducted in this realm of research, you must be literate in the vocabulary of research, data analysis, and scientific thinking. Knowledge of statistics will enable you to understand professional research literature, communicate with experienced social scientists, conduct quantitative research, and help you access the growing body of social science knowledge. Additionally, the course will enable students to learn how to utilize data from international data archive projects, such as the World Value Survey, the International Social Survey Program or the Asian Barometer, to explore significant social or political issues in the region.  
---  
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is a required foundational course for all students at the International College of Innovation. It introduces students to the essential statistics tools and shows how they are used to analyze quantitative data. A fundamental understanding of these tools is a critical foundation for scientific research. The course covers descriptive statistics, inference from samples, hypothesis testing, and various basic statistical analyses. The course will also introduce R, a free software for statistical computing and graphics. You will need to bring a laptop or notebook to the class to use R.  We will have practice time to use R almost every week. Upon successful completion of this course, you will be able to complete the following tasks: 1. Explain basic concepts of statistics (e.g., population vs. sample, sampling distribution). 2. Summarize numeric data by computing descriptive statistics (e.g., mean, variance) and creating tables and graphs. For each procedure, you will learn a hand calculation method (using calculators) and a computer method (using software such as R). 3. Compute various inferential statistics (e.g., t-score) using hand calculation and computer methods. 4. Apply probability theory to test research hypotheses. 5. Explain the differences among various statistical techniques and identify an appropriate method for a given set of variables and research questions.  
---  
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Topic** |  **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Course Introduction |  |  Lecture  
2 |  Statistics and Social Research |  Ch. 1 |  Lecture; In-class discussion; R practice; Homework   
3 |  Basic Descriptive Statistics I |  Ch. 2 |  Lecture; In-class discussion; R practice; Homework  
4 |  Descriptive Statistics: Measures of Central Tendency |  Ch. 3 |  Lecture; In-class discussion; R practice; Homework  
5 |  Descriptive Statistics: Measures of Dispersion |  Ch. 4 |  Lecture; In-class discussion; R practice; Homework  
6 |  The Normal Curve |  Ch. 5 |  Lecture; In-class discussion; R practice; Homework  
7 | Introduction to R: The 1st Lesson |  |  Lecture; In-class discussion; R practice  
8 |  The 1st Quiz and Review |  |  Review  
9 |  Introduction to Inferential Statistics: Sampling and the Sampling Distribution |  Ch. 6 |  Lecture; In-class discussion; R practice; Homework  
10 |  R: The 2nd Lesson |  |  R practice  
11 |  Estimation Process |  Ch. 7 |  Lecture; In-class discussion; Homework  
12 |  Hypothesis Testing I: The One-Sample Case |  Ch. 8 |  Lecture; In-class discussion; Homework  
13 |  Hypothesis Testing I: The One-Sample Case (continues) |  Ch. 8 |  Lecture; In-class discussion; Homework  
14 |  Hypothesis Testing II: The Two-Sample Case |  Ch. 9 |  Lecture; In-class discussion; Homework  
15 |  R project |  |  Group project activity  
16 |  Final Exam  |  |   
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_70%_
####  講述 Lecture
_10%_
####  討論 Discussion
_15%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_5%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
**Attendance:**
Class attendance is required. Statistics learning requires you to gradually but constantly build your knowledge and skills. It is tough to catch up once you fall behind. You are also expected to contribute to the class by asking questions, participating in class discussions, and collaborating on in-class exercises. Therefore, your attendance is essential for making these contributions.
**Reading Assignments:**
You are expected to read the assigned chapters before each session (see the class schedule above). To complete reading assignments successfully, you need to understand what is in each chapter. Therefore, in addition to highlighting the text and taking notes, I suggest you write down any specific questions. It would be helpful if you plan to spend 3 hours before and 3 hours after the weekly class.
You may find some chapters challenging to follow. Don't worry if this happens. It is crucial to finish reading the assigned chapter before each session to gain a general understanding of it and review it after class to ensure a deeper comprehension of the materials.
**Homework Assignments:**
Learning by doing is crucial for understanding statistics. You will be given homework exercises at the end of most sessions. Homework questions for each chapter will be uploaded to Moodle. You will have at least a week to complete each assignment. If you start working on your homework early, you will have a chance to ask questions in the next class session before submitting your assignments. 
I will collect assignments at the beginning of the scheduled class sessions. You will lose points if you turn in your homework late (anytime after the class session starts and before 4:00 pm on the next day). You should upload your assignments to Moodle in MS Word format.
**Group Project:**
There will be a one-week group project at the end of the semester (Week 15). You'll need to form project groups. Each group will have a maximum of 5 students per group and should consist of members from at least two countries.
**Honor Code:**
Please help each other, by all means, to exchange notes for missed class sessions, study for exams, and so on. However, the assignments (homework or quizzes) you turn in should result from your own hard work. **You should not copy your peer's work in any way**. In short, **No Plagiarism or Cheating.** Any confirmed violation, as determined by a third-party investigation, will result in a grade of "zero" for that particular assignment or an "F" for the course, at my discretion. 
**Grading**
Homework Assignments: 55%
Tests (quizzes, including group R project and final): 35%
Attendance: 10%
A+: 90-99 A: 85-89 A-: 80-84
B+: 77-79 B: 73-76 B-: 70-72
C+: 67-69 C: 63-66 C-: 60-62
D: 50-59 
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Healey, J. F., 2021. Statistics: A Tool for Social Research and Data Analysis. New York: Cengage Learning. 11th edition. https://www.tsanghai.com.tw/book_detail.php?c=156&no=4403#p=1
Navarro, Danielle. Learning Statistics with R. https://learningstatisticswithr.com/
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
書名 Book Title |  作者 Author |  出版年 Publish Year |  出版者 Publisher |  ISBN  |  館藏來源* |  備註 Note  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Students should disclose and properly attribute any use of AI tools. Using AI to generate responses and submitting them as one's own is considered a violation. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Lecture Notes (in Chinese):
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1cKY5SwnAmgbodnoupuspuX5oxZvxJG0b/view
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Office Hours: Tues. 12 Noon – 1:30 pm
Office Location: 3rd Fl., International Building
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
TBA
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
