國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：生成式AI及資料科學應用實作
#####  Course Name: Capstone: Practice of Generative AI and Data Science
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1870001 Course No.ZU1870001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_50_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學二、創國學三、創國學四 Course Department:Global Studies/B/2&3&4 
  * 授課老師：卞中佩 Instructor: Pien Chung-pei 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五EFG Session: fri18-21


##  課程簡介Course Description
**Students who attempt to take this course should read the course description and policies carefully and completethe registration form. I will email the acceptance letter to the 2nd round of matriculated students before August 28rd.**
**The Registration Form (https://forms.gle/crf4oxQmSoN5DMcX6)**
In recent years, Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) has become an important tool for solving social problems. However, due to its ongoing development, many gaps still need to be filled to meet the professional requirements of various industries. This course aims to train students to utilize the latest technologies in Generative AI and data science to develop projects that can address real-world challenges. The technology covered includes, but is not limited to, diverse content (such as text, audio, and video) connections, fine-tuning, and Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG).
This course is offered in collaboration with AMD and the Taiwan AI Academy, which provide access to the latest AI computing equipment and real-world AI projects. Students who wish to enroll should have completed programming courses or be able to demonstrate basic proficiency in Python to meet the course’s skill requirements.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The capstone course is divided into three main sections: AI computing equipment training, AI project introduction, and hands-on practice. In the first section, guest lecturers will introduce AMD’s AI solutions, including AI stack, docker and image's management, Ollama, finetuning, RAG, and AMD ROCm for large language models (LLMs). In the second section, the Taiwan AI Academy and other organizations will present AI projects based on current industry needs and define the objectives of each project. In the third section, students will be expected to follow detailed guidelines provided by instructors and professional mentors to complete their assigned projects.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Section 1: AI Computing Equipment Training**
Week 1: Introduction of the Course and Basic of AI Stack (2025/9/5)  
Week 2: Getting Started with AI Stack in AMD AI Server (2025/9/12)  
Week 3: Using AMD AI Server for Artificial Neural Network (2025/9/19)  
Week 4: Using AMD AI Server for LLM (2025/9/26)
**Section 2: AI Project Introduction**
Week 5: GenAI Literacy (2025/10/3)  
Week 6: National Day Holiday (2025/10/10)  
Week 7: Project of enterprises need and objectives I (2025/10/17)  
Week 8: Anniversary of Taiwan's Restoration and the Victory at Kuningtou Holiday (2025/10/24)  
Week 9: Project of enterprises need and objectives II (2025/10/31)
**Section 3: AI Project Practice**
Week 10: Workshop I (2025/11/7)  
Week 11: Workshop II (2025/11/14)  
Week 12: Prototype Development I (2025/11/21)  
Week 13: Prototype Development II (2025/11/28)  
Week 14: Prototype Development III (2025/12/5)  
Week 15: Final Paper Development (2025/12/12)  
Week 16: Final Presention (2025/12/19)
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_10%_
####  講述 Lecture
_40%_
####  討論 Discussion
_40%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
This course's grades will be determined based on your performance in the following areas:
1. Project meetings will be held every Friday evening. Students should attend all meetings and provide a report on their project’s progress.
2. By the conclusion of 5 September’s class, you should establish a team composed of 2-5 of your classmates. Each team should assign a member to email me a list, which should include each team member’s name, email, and university ID.
3. On 7 November, each team should submit a project proposal.
4. Collaborated institutions will establish the deadline for the projects. All teams should submit their work prior to the deadline.
**Generative AI Utility Policy**
This course focuses on developing advanced applications of Generative AI. We welcome the use of Generative AI in the classroom.
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:This course focuses on developing advanced applications of Generative AI. We welcome the use of Generative AI in the classroom. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Click Google Calendar Office Hour Link
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
