國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：政治學概論
#####  Course Name: Introduction to Political Science
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1889001 Course No.ZU1889001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_20_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學一、創國學二、創國學三、創國學四 Course Department:Global Studies/B/1&2&3&4 
  * 授課老師：梁家瑜 Instructor: LIANG CHIA-YU 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16 


##  課程簡介Course Description
‘Introduction to Political Science’ is a one-semester module for undergraduate students. It aims at (1) presenting the scope and core areas of political science to students, (2) nurturing their abilities to reflect on politics, and (3) developing their abilities to express their analysis and interpretation of politics through coherent arguments. 
The module, therefore, is organised into two major themes: political phenomena and ideas, with a strong emphasis on the theory and history of political science. Apart from the first two weeks that introduce the theme of the module and its historical origins, the module unfolds with (1) the mapping of key political phenomena (week 3-7), before moving onto (2) the essential aspects of politics (week 9-15). To conclude the module, the last two weeks will include an open discussion on the future of political science (week 15), and a three-round debate (week 16).
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The objectives of the module include (1) familiarising the students with the core analytical or interpretative objects and approaches of political sciences, (2) cultivating the students’ ability to critically thinking about the political environment they find themselves in, and (3) encourage students to form and present their political arguments in public in an debate.
The design of the assignments, including the essay abstract (mid-term), class debate (week 16), and term paper (end of term), aims to help students develop the ability to form coherent and succinct arguments and present them in an articulate, well-informed, and academically sound term paper. 
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week 1. Introduction: Why Political Science Today?** **_Reading_** (excerpt): Carl Schmitt, _The Concept of the Political_ (University of Chicago Press, 1996).  
---  
**Week 2. Political Sciences between the Ancients and the Moderns** **_Reading_** (excerpt): Aristotle, _The Politics_ (CUP, 1988). Niccolo Machiavelli, _Machiavelli: The Prince_ (CUP, 1988). Shang Yang, _The Book of Lord Shang: Apologetics of State Power in Early China_ , Yuri Pines ed. and trans. (Columbia University Press, 2017).  
**Week 3. War, State, and Man** **_Reading_** (excerpt): Homer, _The Iliad_ (OPU, 2011). Thucydides, _The Peloponnesian War_ (OUP, 2009).  
**Week 4. Authority and Legitimacy** **_Reading_** (excerpt): Thomas Hobbes, _Leviathan_ (CUP, 1991). Jean-Jacques Rousseau, _The Social Contract, and, The First and Second Discourses_ (Yale University Press, 2002).  
**Week 5. Constitution and Institutions** **_Reading_** (excerpt): Emmanuel Sieyès, _Sieyès: Political Writings: Including the Debate Between Sieyes and Tom Paine in 1791_ (Hackett, 2003).  
**Week 6. Production and Distribution** **_Reading_** (excerpt): Karl Marx & Friedrich Engels, _The Communist Manifesto_ (OUP, 2008).  
**Week 7. Revolution and Transformation** **_Reading_** (excerpt): Mary Wollstonecraft, _A Vindication of the Rights of Woman_ (Yale University Press, 2014).  
**Week 8. Debate Observation** **_Screening_** :  Cambridge Union, _This House Would Disband The UN Security Council_ , https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bk4PpUiEYh8&list=PLYpyB-7KwFc7PgCzSPZWEtNbRwWL4GW_h.  
**Week 9.** **Worlding, Ordering, and the International Systems** **_Reading_** (excerpt): Dante Alighieri, _Dante: Monarchy_ (CUP, 1996). Carl Schmitt, _The_ Nomos _of the Earth in the International Law of the_ Jus Publicum Europaeum (Telos Press, 2003).  
**Week 10. Political Ideologies** **_Reading_** (excerpt): Hannah Arendt, _The Origins of Totalitarianism_ (Penguin, 2017).  
**Week 11. Political Memories and Culture** **_Reading_** (excerpt): Ruti G. Teitel, _Globalizing Transitional Justice_ (OUP, 2014).  
**Week 12.****Human Rights** **_Reading_** (excerpt): Simone Weil, _The Need for Roots_ (Penguin, 2023).  
**Week 13. Identity Politics** **_Reading_** (excerpt): Francis Fukuyama, _Identity: The Demand for Dignity and the Politics of Resentment_ (New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux. 2018).  
**Week 14. Genocide, Massacre, and Peace** **_Reading_**(excerpt): Judith Butler, _Frames of War: When Is Life Grievable?_ (Verso, 2016).  
**Week 15. The Future of Political Science** **_Reading_** (excerpt): Mark Coeckelbergh, _The Philosophy of AI: An Introduction_ (Polity, 2022).  
**Week 16. Debates**
  1. The class believes that democracy is worth defending
  2. The class believes that peace is worth everything
  3. The class believes that a world government can produce perpetual peace

  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_10%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
Class Attendance |  10%  
---|---  
Participation |  10%  
Group presentation in debates |  30%  
Abstract of term paper (1 page) |  20%  
Term paper (1500-2000 words) |  30%  
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
Jonathan Wolff, _An Introduction to Political Philosophy_ (OUP, 2023).
Dirk Berg-Schlosser, Bertrand Badie & Leonardo Morlino eds., _The SAGE Handbook of Political Science_ , SAGE, 2020.
Robert E. Goodin, _The Oxford Handbook of Political Science_ , OUP, 2011.
Michael G. Roskin, Robert L. Cord, James A. Medeiros, and Walter S. Jones, _Political Science: An Introduction_ , Global Edition (Pearson, 2016).
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
完全開放使用 Completely Permitted to Use
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
Students are encouraged to email the lecturer to make an appointment for online or in-person meetings. 
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
