國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：創新與全球發展
#####  Course Name: Innovation and Global Development
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1873001 Course No.ZU1873001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_30_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學二、創國學三、創國學四 Course Department:Global Studies/B/2&3&4 
  * 授課老師：江順楠 Instructor: CHIANG SHUN-NAN 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：二234 Session: tue09-12


##  課程簡介Course Description
Contemporary society seems to be grappling with numerous crises and challenges! In 2000, United Nations member states collectively signed the Millennium Declaration, aiming to tackle major global issues such as poverty and hunger through collaborative efforts. In a similar vein, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation launched the Grand Challenges initiative in 2003, seeking to identify significant contemporary challenges and promote the development of innovative solutions. Coinciding with this, in 2008, the U.S. National Academy of Engineering announced 14 Grand Challenges for engineering, aimed at driving research to solve complex and intractable social problems, often referred to as "wicked social problems." Following this approach, the European Union in 2014 identified seven major societal challenges to guide technological development policies. Finally, in 2015, the United Nations updated the global challenges and introduced the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), outlining seventeen major challenges that the global community should overcome by 2030. It is evident that the international community increasingly relies on the concept of "Grand Challenges" to define and address the various social problems facing humanity.
As the world confronts various "Grand Challenges," there is a growing tendency to look toward potential "innovations" as solutions to these global crises. Increasing resources are being allocated to promote diverse innovations aimed at addressing these significant challenges. This reliance on technological advancements to solve major social issues is also reflected in international policy-making. In 2014, the European Union introduced the Horizon 2020 research and innovation program, with the primary objective of using "Responsible Research and Innovation" to tackle key societal challenges. Similarly, in 2015, when the United Nations unveiled the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), it also released a policy white paper detailing how science, technology, and innovation (STI) can be harnessed to achieve these goals.
Various issues arise following this trend. What are these innovations being promoted by international agencies? How could we discern whether these innovations could really solve the social and environmental problems without unintended consequences? In short, how could we develop a deeper understanding of these innovations as solutions to global problems?
These are questions that constitute the basis of this course. In this course, relying on perspectives from different disciplines in social sciences, we are going to collectively explore the landscape of innovation in the international development field. We will also learn to develop various analytical tools to assess potential and existing innovations poised to solve grand challenges. 
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
During this course, you will have the opportunity to learn how to:
  * recognize the differences, similarities, and connections between various types of innovations.
  * identify and analyze the broader context of global issues underlying particular innovations.
  * apply multiple approaches and perspectives to assess specific innovations.
  * create a policy-oriented report summarizing and analyzing a specific kind of innovation.
  * identify (in)effective ways of reading, writing, and participating in group discussion.


##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**_Course Format_**
  * **Group Discussion & Short Lecture:**


My role will be a facilitator who supports your learning. In particular, this course is built on group discussion and collective learning. Most learning will be based on reading assigned materials, discussion, and class activities. I will supplement these activities with short lectures that help contextualize readings, articulate learning themes across weeks, and move the discussion forward.
  * **A Student-centered Learning App roach:**


I employ a _student-centered learning approach_ in this course rather than a traditional lecture format (i.e., you listen to lectures to learn knowledge). The methods of learning in this course, thus, involve two major aspects: 
  *     * Careful and critical reading of assigned materials. I will provide a _weekly study guide_ to help you think and read materials with _intention_.
    * Moderated group discussion. Everyone will be assigned to a discussion group of around 5-6 students. You will be mainly interacting with these group mates throughout the semester. Everyone will rotate to serve as a group discussion facilitator and write summary reports for the group discussion.


**_Learning Activities_**
  * **Collective Annotation & Weekly Memo: **


I will provide guiding questions for each assigned reading to help you navigate and understand readings. These questions will not be difficult and only involve the readings’ most important aspects of knowledge. You will need to “answer” these guiding questions by taking notes in any way you prefer. You are not required to write lengthy answers or take extensive notes. The minimum requirement is **2-3 sentences** for each question. 
  * **Innovation Assessment Report**


Throughout the course, you will also need to investigate a specific innovation of your choice. At the end of the semester, you will need to finish a “Innovation Assessment Report” using analytical tools that we learn in each week. I will also assist you to finish this report every step of the way. Thus, I have divided the report into four tasks that you will accomplish in different weeks of the semester. I will also provide a more detailed guideline for each task during the course.
  1. Preliminary report outline
  2. First draft
  3. Finalized report
  4. Class Exhibit


  * **The Innovation This Week:**


To facilitate you to cultivate familiarity with innovations across the global development arena and develop tools and skills to stay connected with the global world, I developed this learning activity called “The Innovation This Week.” Everyone will rotate to share the background of one specific innovation.
  * **Study Journal:**


Study Journal is a Google document you share with me. I will provide detailed instructions later for how to create your Study Journal. I hope this Study Journal will serve as a platform for you to monitor and track your learning progress. It will also be a good way for me to know how you are doing during these four months and what measures I could do to support your learning. You will be responsible for maintaining this Study Journal throughout the 4-month course. In specific, this Study Journal will include four components.
  1. At the beginning of the course, you will need to develop your learning schedule for all the course assignments stated in the syllabus. (mandatory)
  2. In the 9th week of the course, you will need to do a mid-term reflection to evaluate your learning so far and how you may adjust your study plan in the next two months. (mandatory)
  3. At the end of the course, you will need to write a brief report evaluating your learning during these four months. (mandatory)
  4. You are welcome to write an update on your learning progress and status any time during the semester (e.g., once a week) on the same document. (optional)


**_Schedule of Classes_**
**Week** |  **Topic** |  **Assigned Reading**  
---|---|---  
#1 9/2 |  Course introduction & What innovations? |  None  
#2 9/9 |  Setting the scene: the rise of grand challenges and purpose-driven innovations |  Guthman, Julie. 2024. **_The Problem with Solutions: Why Silicon Valley Can't Hack the Future of Food_**. University of California Press. (Preface & _Introduction_)  
**Part I: Sampling Different Types of Innovation**  
#3 9/16 |  Emerging technology |  Goldstein, Jesse. 2018. **_Planetary Improvement: Cleantech Entrepreneurship and the Contradictions of Green Capitalism_**. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press. (_Introduction &CH1_)  
#4 9/23 |  Frugal innovation |  Ames, Morgan G. 2019. **_The Charisma Machine: The Life, Death, and Legacy of One Laptop per Child_**. MIT Press. (_CH2 &Ch3_)  
#5 9/30 |  Community-based innovation |  Williams, Logan D. A. 2018. **_Eradicating Blindness: Global Health Innovation from South Asia_**. Springer. (_Ch5 &CH6_)  
#6 10/7 |  Business model innovation |  Mader, Philip. 2016.**_The political economy of microfinance: Financializing poverty_**. Springer. (_CH1_)  
#7 10/14 |  Policy innovation |  Lindert, K., Linder, A., Hobbs, J., & De la Brière, B. 2007. **The Nuts and Bolts of Brazil’s Bolsa Família Program: Implementing Conditional Cash Transfers in a Decentralized Context**. _World Bank social protection discussion paper_ , 709.  
#8 10/21 |  Repair and maintenance |  Kalantidou, Eleni, et al., eds. 2023. **_Design/Repair: Place, Practice & Community_**. Springer Nature. (CH4&CH7)  
**Part II: Assessing Innovations**  
#9 10/28 |  Is the innovation just a “fix?” |  Scott, N. Dane. 2018. **_Food, Genetic Engineering and Philosophy of Technology: Magic Bullets, Technological Fixes and Responsibility to the Future_**. New York, NY: Springer Berlin Heidelberg. (_CH3 &CH5_)  
#10 11/4 |  What is the “business model” and “scaling-up potential” of the innovation? |  Williams, Logan D. A. 2018. **_Eradicating Blindness: Global Health Innovation from South Asia_**. Springer. (_Ch1 &CH3_)  
#11 11/11 |  What is the history behind the innovation? |  Goldstein, Jesse. 2018. **_Planetary Improvement: Cleantech Entrepreneurship and the Contradictions of Green Capitalism_**. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT Press. (_CH2_)  
#12 11/18 |  What is the social and technical system underlying the innovation? |  Ceschin, Fabrizio, and İdil Gaziulusoy. 2019** _. Design for Sustainability: a Multi-level Framework from Products to Socio-Technical Systems_**. Routledge, 2019. (_CH10_)  
#13 11/25 |  Does the innovation reproduce social inequality? |  Benjamin, Ruha. 2019. **_Race After Technology: Abolitionist Tools for the New Jim Code_**. 1st edition. Medford, MA: Polity. (_CH1_)  
#14 12/2 |  Is the innovation a _responsible_ one? |  Iatridis, Konstantinos, and Doris Schroeder. 2016. **_Responsible Research and Innovation in Industry_**. Springer. (_CH2 &CH6_)  
#15 12/9 |  Does the innovation pay attention to the colonial relations behind the problem? |  Irani, Lilly. 2019. **_Chasing Innovation: Making Entrepreneurial Citizens in Modern India_**. Princeton University Press. (_CH2 &CH3_)  
#16 12/16 |  Crafting our manual for developing a new _solution_ |  N/A  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_30%_
####  講述 Lecture
_30%_
####  討論 Discussion
_30%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_10%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
  * **Accumulative**


There are five types of assignments you will finish during the course. As you can see, there is NO mid-term or final exam. All the grades are **accumulative**. This means you will accumulate your grades with each task you accomplish. But this also means you need to spend an equal amount of time on the course each week, and you will NOT have the chance to “cram” all the coursework at the end of the semester. 
  1. **Grade Calculation**

**(1) Weekly Memo** |  36% |  12 readings, 3% each |  the end of every Sunday  
---|---|---|---  
**(2) Participation** |  26% |  13 times, 2% each |  N/A  
**(3) Innovation Assessment Report** |  27% |  |   
  *     * Outline

|  5% |  once  |  W7  
  *     * First draft

|  6% |  once  |  W11  
  *     * Final report

|  8% |  once  |  W14  
  *     * Class exhibit

|  5% |  once  |  W15  
(4) **The Innovation This Week** |  5% |  once |  N/A  
(5) **Study Journal** |  6% |  |   
  *     * Planning for the entire semester

|  2%  |  once |  The end of W2  
  *     * Mid-term self-assessment

|  2% |  once |  The end of W8  
  *     * End-of-Semester Reflection

|  2% |  once |  The end of W16  
**Total** |  100% |   
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
There is no textbook for this course. We will read a chapter from one book each week. I also encourage you to explore other chapters in these books. One major reason I assign book chapters is that I hope you enjoy the details of each empirical issue and gain a better sense of the materialities of each locale of the world society.
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
本課程無涉及AI使用 This Course Does Not Involve the Use of AI.
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
需經教師同意始得使用  Approval
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
sign up via this link: https://tinyurl.com/ShunnanOfficeHour
Location: Research Building #835
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
