國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：國際組織
#####  Course Name: International Organisations
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：ZU1908001 Course No.ZU1908001


#### 修別：選
Type of Credit: Elective 
_3.0_
#### 學分數
Credit(s)
_25_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：創國學二、創國學三、創國學四 Course Department:Global Studies/B/2&3&4 
  * 授課老師：張佳康 Instructor: KEVIN CHIA-KANG CHANG 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：五678 Session: fri15-18


##  課程簡介Course Description
International organisations (IOs) have been created over the past century to advance cooperation among states to find common solutions to international and transnational challenges. IOs are tools of international politics and international relations, while serving as indispensable fora for establishing and implementing international norms and principles. Some of the key international challenges tackled by IOs include armed conflicts, humanitarian crises, infectious diseases, climate change, international trade and global inequality. IOs vary greatly in terms of their mission, functions, membership, structure, powers and geographical scope. The role of IOs in international politics remains controversial: while some perceive them as enablers to achieving global solutions beyond the capacity of individual states, others question their effectiveness and legitimacy given their tendency to be controlled by the most powerful states. States and citizens alike are sometimes disappointed by the gap between IOs’ lofty aspirations and their actual performance in addressing global problems. 
The course will start by introducing the central analytical approaches that help students understand key characteristics of international organisations: their creation and design, their power and mandates, their decision-making processes, their impact and policy effectiveness, and their interaction with states and other IOs. This analytical framework is then applied to analyse the functions and performance of IOs concerning specific global challenges and policy domains, including peace, security, human rights, trade, crisis response, health and environment. Finally, the course will examine the responsibility and accountability of IOs, and examine the geopolitical realities that limit Taiwan’s participation in these international fora.
The course will be taught by Associate Professor Kevin Chang (JD, LLM, MA, GradDipIntLaw, GradDipLegPrac, BSc), who is a senior advisor on international law and who brings more than 20 years’ experience as a lawyer, advocate and practitioner with the United Nations, the International Committee of the Red Cross, the Australian Government and other international organisations. Professor Chang is a Lawyer of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory. He also teaches at the University of Sydney and the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies in Geneva.
This course will be taught via a hybrid mode of teaching of 50% being in-person, the other 50% online. Students are expected to read the prescribed reading material in advance, submit reflection notes, and participate in class discussions. This course is designed with an assumption that students will already have a solid appreciation of international politics. This course is suitable only for students who have an advanced level of English proficiency. Because of the class size limit of 25 students, prospective students may be required to submit a statement of motivation prior to their enrolment being confirmed.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
012345ABCDE雷達圖老師學生
「無核心能力」 
**能力項目說明**
  * A. 全球及區域研究之基礎智識
  * B. 跨領域學習及研發之基礎知能
  * C. 公民權利與基本權利之素養
  * D. 全球及區域永續發展之專業
  * E. 應用知識、有效溝通及參與審議之能力


* * *
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
The key aim of this course is to gain a deep understanding of IOs and their capacities for solving the world’s greatest challenges. Students will gain detailed knowledge of IOs through analysis of their characteristics, powers, legitimacy and performance, and will recognise the promises and limitations of IOs in the modern global system. Students will understand the powers possessed by IOs, as well as challenges faced by them, through examining their performance with respect to major global issues and crises.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
**Week** |  **Topic** |  **Content and Reading Assignment** |  **Teaching Activities and Homework**  
---|---|---|---  
1 |  Introduction to International Organisations |  Course introduction |  In-person  
2 |  Key Characteristics of IOs I |  IO types, roles, functions |  In-person  
3 |  Key Characteristics of IOs II |  Power and legitimacy of IOs |  In-person  
4 |  IOs & International Law |  IOs' roles in creation, development, implementation of IL; Statehood |  Online  
5 |  The United Nations: Overview |  Overview of the UN Charter and major organs |  Online  
6 |  (No class – public holiday) |  |   
7 |  The United Nations: Peace and Security I |  The Security Council, dispute settlement, use of force, sanctions |  Online  
8 |  (No class – public holiday) |  |   
9 |  The United Nations: Peace and Security II |  Conflict prevention, peacebuilding and peacekeeping |  Online  
10 |  Regional IGOs   
_Student Presentations I_ |  Regional IOs, including supranational IOs such as the EU |  Online  
11 |  Development & Humanitarian Assistance  
_Student Presentations II_ |  Role of IOs in development and humanitarian assistance, SDGs |  Online  
12 |  Human rights |  Promotion of human rights, rule of law, transitional justice, HRC |  In-person  
13 |  International justice   
UN Reform 2025 |  International courts and tribunals    
Latest UN reform proposals |  In-person  
14 |  Taiwan & IOs  
Trade and Commerce |  Taiwan’s challenges and opportunities in IO participation  
The World Trade Organisation |  In-person  
15 |  Responsibility of IOs  
How IOs die   
Exam revision |  The legal and ethical responsibilities of IOs  
What kills IOs? |  In-person/online TBC  
16 |  Final examination |  |  In-person  
##  授課方式Teaching Approach
_60%_
####  講述 Lecture
_25%_
####  討論 Discussion
_15%_
####  小組活動 Group activity
_0%_
####  數位學習 E-learning
_0%_
####  其他： Others:
##  評量工具與策略、評分標準成效Evaluation Criteria
1. Class participation 10%
2. Reflection notes 10%
3. In-class presentation 20%
4. Final examination 60%
##  指定/參考書目Textbook & References
A full reading list will be provided in early September. The course will use a combination of textbooks and journal articles. The main reference textbooks are listed below. Excerpts from these texts will be provided, thus it is not necessary for students to purchase these books.
The United Nations and Changing World Politics
Thomas G. Weiss, David P. Forsythe, Roger A. Coate, Kelly-Kate Pease
8th Edition, 2017, Routledge
The Oxford Handbook of International Organizations
Edited by Jacob Katz Cogan, Ian Hurd, and Ian Johnstone
2016, Oxford University Press
An Introduction to International Organizations Law
Jan Klabbers
4th edition, 2022, Cambridge University Press
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.
##  本課程可否使用生成式AI工具Course Policies on the Use of Generative AI Tools
有條件開放使用:Students may use AI tools to support their study of course contents. It is prohibited to use AI tools to draft, write or prepare any oral or written assessments. Conditional Permitted to Use 
###  課程相關連結Course Related Links
```
Charter of the United Nations: https://www.un.org/en/about-us/un-charter/full-text
```

* * *
###  課程附件Course Attachments
###  課程進行中，使用智慧型手機、平板等隨身設備 To Use Smart Devices During the Class
是  Yes
###  授課教師Office Hours及地點Office Hours & Office Location
By appointment with professor
###  教學助理基本資料Teaching Assistant Information
Cheng Yu-Chen (Dino) 鄭宇辰
Powered by NCCU Computer Center
  
列印
