國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：經濟學 
#####  Course Name: Economics
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000219551 Course No.000219551
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：國貿系 Course Department:International Business 
  * 授課老師：朴民佑 Instructor: PARK MINWOO 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：四D56 Session: thu13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
This is the first economics course designed for freshmen. The course starts with the basic analytical tool of the economists: Supply and Demand. We will use this tool to analyze various topics, such as Welfare Analysis, Public Finance, Firm Behaviors, Industrial Organizations, Labor Market, and Inequality. Knowledge of basic calculus is desirable but not necessary. (A math review will be provided as we go along the semester.)  
_This is the first half of a year-long course._  
_TA sessions (Mandatory): Friday 12pm-1pm._  
_Lectures will be given in English only._
This is the first economics course designed for freshmen. The course starts with the basic analytical tool of the economists: Supply and Demand. We will use this tool to analyze various topics, such as Welfare Analysis, Public Finance, Firm Behaviors, Industrial Organizations, Labor Market, and Inequality. Knowledge of basic calculus is desirable but not necessary. (A math review will be provided as we go along the semester.)  
_This is the first half of a year-long course._  
_TA sessions (Mandatory): Friday 12pm-1pm._  
_Lectures will be given in English only._
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course aims to familiarize students with the way economists think. The tools learned in the course will help students understand and analyze economic issues clearly. They will be able to read and debate the articles in economic and business newspapers more effectively, which is vital in conducting international business.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
週次 Week |  課程主題 Topic |  課程內容與指定閱讀 Content and Reading Assignment |  教學活動與作業 Teaching Activities and Homework |  學習投入時間 Student workload expectation  
---|---|---|---|---  
課堂講授 In-class Hours |  課程前後 Outside-of-class Hours  
1  
9/4 |  Introduction  |  Introduction: What is Economics? |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
2  
9/11 |  History of Thoughts and Gains from Trade |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
3  
9/18 |  How Markets Work |  Supply and Demand |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
4  
9/25 |  Elasticity |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
5  
10/2 |  Midterm Exam 1  
6  
10/9 |  Government Policies |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
7  
10/16 |  Welfare Analysis |  Consumers, Producers, and the Efficiency of Markets |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
8  
10/30 |  Public Sector |  Externalities |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
9  
11/6 |  Public Goods and Common Resources |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
10  
11/13 |  Midterm Exam 2  
11  
11/20 |  Firm Behavior and Industrial Organization |  Costs of Production |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
12  
11/27 |  Firms in Competitive Markets |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
13  
12/4 |  Monopoly and Monopolistic Competition |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
14  
12/11 |  Oligopoly |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
15  
12/18 |  Consumer Theory |  Consumer Theory 1 |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
16  
12/26 |  Consumer Theory 2 |  Lecture |  3 |  3  
TBD |  Final Exam (Joint)  
Class Attendance : Class attendance is strongly recommended. Students registered for the course who do not regularly come to class may receive a grade of ND. However, I do not take attendance in a regular basis and the grades are granted based on exams.
Policy on missed exam : The dates of the midterm and final exams are fixed. Students who experience a serious medical condition that requires immediate attention from a physician, or an emergency that prevents them from taking the exam may be excused. However, students must contact the instructor _before_ the exam and must _verify_ their condition by official documents. No exceptions will be made for job interviews, holiday travel, or other non-academic activities. When a student is properly excused from an exam, no make-up exam will be offered. Instead, his or her course grade will be adjusted based on other exams and homework.
Policy on Regrading: If, after reviewing the exam answers, a student feels that there is a grading mistake on his or her exam, that student can submit a re-grade request. The student must submit a written discussion _within one week_ from the time at which the exams are handed back. When regrade request is accepted, the entire exam will be regraded, which could lower the score as well.
Academic Dishonesty: Cheating hurts our community by undermining academic integrity, creating mistrust, and fostering unfair competition. The university will punish cheaters with failure on an assignment, failure in a course, permanent transcript notation, and/or expulsion. Violations can include cheating on exams, plagiarism, reuse of assignments without permission, improper use of the Internet and electronic devices, unauthorized collaboration, alteration of graded assignments, forgery, falsification and lying. 
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.