國立政治大學校務行政系統 教學大綱 Syllabus
# 教學大綱 Syllabus
##  科目名稱：初級會計學（一）
#####  Course Name: Fundamental Accounting (I)
  * 學年學期：114-1 Fall Semester, 2025 
  * 科目代碼：000314011 Course No.000314011
#### 修別：必
Type of Credit: Required 
_3.0_
#### 預收人數
Number of Students
課程資料Course Details
  * 開課單位：會計系 Course Department:Accounting 
  * 授課老師：徐愛恩 Instructor: STEPHANIE TSUI 
  * 先修科目：無Prerequisite(N/A)
  * 上課時間：一D56 Session: mon13-16
##  課程簡介Course Description
Please do not contact the Professor and TA for override. Thank you!
This is the first course in a two-semester Introductory Level Financial Accounting sequence. This course is designed to enhance students’ understanding of the financial reporting processes. The focus of the course is on fundamental accounting concepts and principles. The course shows students how a firm's economic transactions are prepared and reported in the financial statements and related disclosures. The course aims to provide students with basic skills to prepare, read, and use financial statements. This course also aims to further prepare students for more advanced financial accounting courses as well as to help students become both sophisticated preparers and users of financial accounting information.
###  核心能力分析圖 Core Competence Analysis Chart
「無核心能力」 
能力項目說明
##  課程目標與學習成效Course Objectives & Learning Outcomes 
This course is designed to provide you with an in-depth understanding of the subject covered by the materials - fundamental financial accounting. The nature of this course is demanding and challenging. It is time-consuming for a college freshman to master the subject while trying to get used to the newly-started college life in the same time. To succeed, you need to put serious efforts outside of class. Come to each class prepared.
The course materials are presented through a mix of pre-recorded class lectures, assigned readings and problems. You should maximize your understanding of the materials by watching class lectures. To be successful, you are expected to actively involve in the course by asking questions via email and review the assigned readings and attempt all homework problems after the class.
##  每周課程進度與作業要求 Course Schedule & Requirements
Course Schedule & Requirements
週次 |  授課內容 |  備註  
---|---|---  
  1. 9/1 
|  Class Introduction |  In-Person  
  1. 9/8 
|  Chapter 1 – Accounting in Action |   
  1. 9/15 
|  Chapter 2 – The Recording Process | In-Person  
  1. 9/22 
|  Chapter 3 – The Recording Process Quiz 1 (Ch1) |  In-Person  
5 9/29  |  |  Chapter 4 – Completing the Accounting Cycle  
---  
6 10/6  | Holiday |   
7 10/13  | Exam 1 (Ch1-3) |  In-Person  
8 10/20  |  Chapter 5 - Accounting for Merchandise Operations |   
9 10/27  |  Chapter 6 – Inventories Quiz 2 (Ch4) |  In-Person  
10 11/3  | Chapter 7 – Fraud, Internal Control, and Cash |   
11 11/10  |  Exam 2 (Ch4-6) |  In-Person  
12 11/17  | Chapter 8 - Accounting for Receivables |   
13 11/24  |  Chapter 9 - LT assets  |   
14 12/1 |  Quiz 3 ( Ch7-8) |  In-Person  
15 12/8  |  Review (optional) |  In-Person  
16 TBA |  Exam 3 (Ch7-9) |  In-Person  
Tentative and subject to changes. 
####  其他： Others:
####  已申請之圖書館指定參考書目  圖書館指定參考書查詢 |相關處理要點
維護智慧財產權，務必使用正版書籍。 Respect Copyright.